'western','The film opens with two bandits breaking into a railroad telegraph office, where they force the operator at gunpoint to have a train stopped and to transmit orders for the engineer to fill the locomotive''s tender at the station''s water tank. They then knock the operator out and tie him up. As the train stops it is boarded by the bandits‍—‌now four. Two bandits enter an express car, kill a messenger and open a box of valuables with dynamite; the others kill the fireman and force the engineer to halt the train and disconnect the locomotive. The bandits then force the passengers off the train and rifle them for their belongings. One passenger tries to escape but is instantly shot down. Carrying their loot, the bandits escape in the locomotive, later stopping in a valley where their horses had been left. Meanwhile, back in the telegraph office, the bound operator awakens, but he collapses again. His daughter arrives bringing him his meal and cuts him free, and restores him to consciousness by dousing him with water. There is some comic relief at a dance hall, where an Eastern stranger is forced to dance while the locals fire at his feet. The door suddenly opens and the telegraph operator rushes in to tell them of the robbery. The men quickly form a posse, which overtakes the bandits, and in a final shootout kills them all and recovers the stolen mail.'
'comedy','The film is about a family who move to the suburbs, hoping for a quiet life. Things start to go wrong, and the wife gets violent and starts throwing crockery, leading to her arrest.'
'short','The Rarebit Fiend gorges on Welsh rarebit at a restaurant. When he leaves, he begins to get dizzy as he starts to hallucinate. He desperately tries to hang onto a lamppost as the world spins all around him. A man helps him get home. He falls into bed and begins having more hallucinatory dreams. During a dream sequence, the furniture begins moving around the room. Imps emerge from a floating Welsh rarebit container and begin poking his head as he sleeps. His bed then begins dancing and spinning wildly around the room before flying out the window with the Fiend in it. The bed floats across the city as the Fiend floats up and off the bed. He hangs off the back and eventually gets caught on a weathervane atop a steeple. His bedclothes tear and he falls from the sky, crashing through his bedroom ceiling. The Fiend awakens from the dream after falling out of his bed.'
'short action/crime western','The film features a train traveling through the Rockies and a hold up created by two thugs placing logs on the line. They systematically rob the wealthy occupants at gunpoint and then make their getaway along the tracks and later by a hi-jacked horse and cart.'
'short film','Irish villager Kathleen is a tenant of Captain Clearfield, who controls local judges and criminals. Her father owes Clearfield a large debt. Terence O''More saves the village from Clearfield, causing a large celebration. Film historian Charles Musser writes of Porter''s adaptation, "O''More not only rescues Kathleen from the villain but, through marriage, renews the family for another generation."[1]'
'biographical','Boone''s daughter befriends an Indian maiden as Boone and his companion start out on a hunting expedition. While he is away, Boone''s cabin is attacked by the Indians, who set it on fire and abduct Boone''s daughter. Boone returns, swears vengeance, then heads out on the trail to the Indian camp. His daughter escapes but is chased. The Indians encounter Boone, which sets off a huge fight on the edge of a cliff. A burning arrow gets shot into the Indian camp. Boone gets tied to the stake and tortured. The burning arrow sets the Indian camp on fire, causing panic. Boone is rescued by his horse, and Boone has a knife fight in which he kills the Indian chief.[2]'
'comedy','Before heading out to a baseball game at a nearby ballpark, sports fan Mr. Brown drinks several highball cocktails. He arrives at the ballpark to watch the game, but has become so inebriated that the game appears to him in reverse, with the players running the bases backwards and the baseball flying back into the pitcher''s hand. After the game is over, Mr. Brown is escorted home by one of his friends. When they arrive at Brown''s house, they encounter his wife who becomes furious with the friend and proceeds to physically assault him, believing he is responsible for her husband''s severe intoxication.[1]'
'comedy','The plot is that of a black woman going to the dentist for a toothache and being given laughing gas. On her way walking home, and in other situations, she can''t stop laughing, and everyone she meets "catches" the laughter from her, including a vendor and police officers.'
'drama','On a beautiful summer day a father and mother take their daughter Dollie on an outing to the river. The mother refuses to buy a gypsy''s wares. The gypsy tries to rob the mother, but the father drives him off. The gypsy returns to the camp and devises a plan. They return and kidnap Dollie while her parents are distracted. A rescue crew is organized, but the gypsy takes Dollie to his camp. They gag Dollie and hide her in a barrel before the rescue party gets to the camp. Once they leave the gypsies and escapes in their wagon. As the wagon crosses the river, the barrel falls into the water. Still sealed in the barrel, Dollie is swept downstream in dangerous currents. A boy who is fishing in the river finds the barrel, and Dollie is reunited safely with her parents.'
'drama','A thug accosts a girl as she leaves her workplace but a man rescues her. The thug vows revenge and, with the help of two friends, attacks the girl and her rescuer again as they''re going for a walk. This time they succeed in kidnapping the rescuer. He is bound and gagged and taken away in a cart. The girl runs home and gets help from several neighbors. They track the ruffians down to a cabin in the mountains where the gang has trapped their victim and set the cabin on fire. A thug and Rescuer fight on the roof of the house.'
'comedy','A young couple decides to elope after being caught in the midst of a romantic moment by the woman''s angry father. They make plans to leave, but a thief discovers their plans and hides in their trunk and waits for the right moment to steal their belongings.'
'adventure','A white girl (Florence Lawrence) rejects a proposal from an Indian brave (Charles Inslee) in this early one-reel Western melodrama. Despite the rejection, the Indian still comes to the girl''s defense when she is abducted by his warring tribe. In her first year in films, Florence Lawrence was already the most popular among the Biograph Company''s anonymous stock company players. By 1909, she was known the world over as "The Biograph Girl."'
'drama','No prints of the first American film adaptation of A Christmas Carol are known to exist,[1] but The Moving Picture World magazine provided a scene-by-scene description before the film''s release.[2] Scrooge goes into his office and begins working. His nephew, along with three women who wish for Scrooge to donate enter. However, Scrooge dismisses them. On the night of Christmas Eve, his long-dead partner Jacob Marley comes as a ghost, warning him of a horrible fate if he does not change his ways. Scrooge meets three spirits that show Scrooge the real meaning of Christmas, along with his grave, the result of his parsimonious ways. The next morning, he wakes and realizes the error of his ways. Scrooge was then euphoric and generous for the rest of his life.'
'western','The film opens in a town on the Mexican border. A poker game is going on in the local saloon. One of the players cheats and is shot dead by another of the players, a Mexican named Pedro. In the uproar that follows Pedro is wounded as he escapes from the saloon. The sheriff is called, who tracks Pedro to his home but Pedro kills the sherriff too. While Pedro hides, his wife Juanita, is arrested on suspicion of murdering the sheriff. Pedro rescues her from the town jail and the two head for the Mexican border. Caught by the posse before they reach the border, Juanita is killed and the film ends with Pedro being arrested and taken back to town.'
'drama','A rejected admirer sets up a trap to kill his sweetheart and her fiance before they married and then commit suicide, but before he passes away, he leaves a confession. Fortunately the confession is found on time and a police man runs to the church to save the couple.'
'drama','John Wharton, the husband of a true and trusting wife and father of an eight-year-old girl, through the association of rakish companions becomes addicted to the drink habit, and while the demon rum has not fastened its tentacles firmly, there is no question that given free rein the inevitable would culminate in time. Arriving home one afternoon in a wine besotted condition, he is indeed a terrifying spectacle to his little family. Later, after he has slept off the effects to some extent, while at supper, the little girl shows him two tickets for the theater, begging him to take her. After some persuasion he consents to go. The play is a dramatization of Émile Zola''s L''Assommoir, which shows how short a journey it is from peace and happiness to woe and despair by the road of rum. At the final curtain of the play, he is a changed man, going homeward with a firm determination that he will drink no more, which he promises his wife upon his return. Two years later we find the little family seated, happy and peaceful, at the fireside and we know that the promise has been kept.'
'drama','An old woman sends a girl begging in the streets of Paris on a snowy evening. Callous revelers pass her by, and she falls asleep before one donor finally drops a golden Louis in her shoe. A gambler with a sure tip on roulette but no cash borrows the coin to win a fortune for the girl. She wakes, and the two miss each other wandering the streets until the gambler finds the girl dead.'
'drama','Mary Pickford plays Priscilla an unemployed maid who finds work at a farm. There she meets a no-good peddler who starts flirting with her and makes her fall in love with him. He runs up a gambling bill and asks her to help him pay his debts or he won''t be able to marry her.[1]'
'comedy','Hemlock Hoax is a detective who has little respect in the small tropical town where he lives, despite the fact that he thinks he is a better sleuth than Sherlock Holmes. A pair of boys decide to play a trick on Hoax and tell him about a murder. Hoax rushes to scene of the crime where he discovers a shred of cloth, later finding that a tramp is wearing the same type of clothes that he found. The tramp runs away and Hoax gives chase, with other people helping the pursuit. Eventually, Hoax captures the tramp with the aid of a police officer, and returns to the victim''s body with the man. Hoax then comes to a realization that the body was just a dummy that had been stuffed with the leaves. The crowd has a laugh at Hoax''s expense while the two boys are punished.[1]'
'drama','During the American Civil War a young soldier loses his nerve in battle and runs away to his home to hide; his sister puts on his uniform, takes her brother''s place in the battle, and is killed. Their mother, not wanting the shameful truth to become known, closes all the shutters (hence the film''s title) and keeps her son''s presence a secret for many years, until two boyhood chums stumble upon the truth.'
'drama','An Irish boy (Olcott) emigrates to America to escape the desperate poverty of Ireland. After finding work in construction, he finds success in politics. He returns to Ireland after receiving a letter from his sweetheart (Gauntier) just as her destitute family is being forced off their land.[3]'
'short fantasy','Though the film is presumed lost, a synopsis survives in The Moving Picture World from October 15, 1910. It states: "Captain John Smith comes to America as the head of a band of English colonists and settles in Jamestown, Virginia. While at the head of the colony Smith makes a trip of exploration into the interior and is captured there by King Powhatan, the acknowledged head of all of the red men in Virginia. Powhatan orders his prisoner''s execution. Just as the fatal club is about to descend, Pocahontas, the favorite daughter of the King, throws herself before her father. She begs so fervently that the white man''s life be spared that Powhatan relents and orders his release. Captain Smith returns in safety to his friends. Later Pocahontas is taken prisoner by the English and held as hostage. While a prisoner, she is converted to Christianity, and falls in love with Rolfe, a handsome young Englishman. They are married in a rude little church at Jamestown, and the Indian princess sails away with her husband to England. There she is received with royal honors by King James I, but the foreign flower cannot stand transplanting. She soon sickens and dies, and in her last hours is visited by visions of the home in the wilderness that she would fly back to if she could."[1]'
'drama','Ramona chronicles the romance between Ramona (Mary Pickford), a Spanish orphan from the prestigious Moreno family, and Alessandro (Henry B. Walthall), an Indian who appears on her family''s ranch one day. A man named Felipe (Francis J. Grandon) proclaims his love for Ramona, but she rejects him because she has fallen for Alessandro. They fall deeply in love, yet their desire to wed is denied by Ramona''s stepmother, who reacts by exiling Alessandro from her ranch. He returns to his village, only to find that it has been demolished by white men. Meanwhile, Ramona is informed that she also has "Indian blood", which leads her to abandon everything she has to be with Alessandro. They marry, and live among the wreckage of Alessandro''s devastated village. They have a child together and live at peace until the white men come to force them from their home as they claim the land. Their baby perishes, and then Alessandro is then killed by the white men. Ramona is then rescued by Felipe and returned to her family back on the ranch.[3]'
'silent sports','Though the film is presumed lost, a synopsis survives in The Moving Picture World from January 7, 1911. It states, "Miss Street''s Seminary for Girls has a very ambitious class of pupils. The young athletes, not content with basketball and tennis, aspire to shine in the great American game, and organize a baseball club. They are so satisfied with themselves that they finally send a challenge to Adair College, which has a crowd of husky young athletes in a club that thinks it amounts to something. When the challenge is received, the boys are first angry, then amused. They decide to accept it, to have fun with the girls. The young women, after some practice, realize that their team, while it may be pretty to look at, is of little real use on the diamond. And the prospect makes them weep. Fortunately for the girls, Jack, the brother of the president, arrives from Harvard. His chum, Jim, is with him. These two young men are baseball stars themselves, and when they are told of the predicament of the girls, they goodnaturedly offer to help them out. The university men disguise themselves as girls, act as battery for the young women, and the college boys, who had looked for a laughable victory, are mowed down, inning after inning, because of the work of pitcher Jack and catcher Jim. The other members of the ''girl'' team have nothing to do except look pretty. When the boy athletes have retired from the field vanquished, the girls reward their battery with one kiss - only one - from each of the other seven players."[1]'
'drama','The novel is set in the reign of "old King Henry VI" (1422–1461, 1470–1471) and during the Wars of the Roses (1455–1487). The story begins with the Tunstall Moat House alarm bell, rung to summon recruits for its absent lord Sir Daniel Brackley, to join the Battle of Risingham; at which the outlaw "fellowship" known as "the Black Arrow" begins to strike with its "four black arrows" for the "four black hearts" of Brackley and three of his retainers: Nicholas Appleyard, Bennet Hatch, and Sir Oliver Oates, the parson. The rhyme posted in explanation of this attack, makes the protagonist Richard (''Dick'') Shelton, ward of Sir Daniel, curious about the death of his father Sir Harry Shelton. Having been dispatched to Kettley, where Sir Daniel was quartered, and sent to Tunstall Moat House by return dispatch, he falls in with a fugitive, Joanna Sedley, disguised as a boy with the alias of John Matcham: an heiress kidnapped by Sir Daniel to obtain guardianship over her and to retain his control over Richard by marrying her to him. As they travel through Tunstall Forest, Joanna tries to persuade Dick to turn against Sir Daniel in sympathy with the Black Arrow outlaws, whose camp they discover near the ruins of Grimstone manor. The next day they are met in the forest by Sir Daniel himself, disguised as a leper and returning to the Moat House after his side was defeated at Risingham. Dick and Joanna then follow Sir Daniel to the Moat House. Here Dick confirms that Sir Daniel is the murderer of his father, and escapes injured from the Moat House. He is rescued by the outlaws of the Black Arrow. The second half of the novel, Books 3–5, tells how Dick rescues Joanna from Sir Daniel with the help of both the Black Arrow fellowship and the Yorkist army led by Richard Crookback, the future Richard III of England. It centres on Shoreby, where the Lancastrian forces are entrenched. Robert Louis Stevenson inserts seafaring adventure in chapters 4–6 of Book 3, wherein Dick and the outlaws steal a ship and attempt a seaside rescue of Joanna. They are unsuccessful, and after Joanna is moved to Sir Daniel''s main quarters in Shoreby, Dick visits her in the guise of a Franciscan friar. Stevenson, the populariser of the tales of the Arabian nights, has Dick tell the tale of Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves in Book 4, chapter 6 to help him escape from the ruined sea captain Arblaster, whose ship Dick and the outlaws had stolen. While shadowing Sir Daniel, Dick and the outlaws encounter another group of spies interested in Joanna. After a skirmish in which the outlaws prevail, Dick finds that he has conquered Joanna''s lawful guardian, Lord Foxham, who promises to give Joanna to Dick in marriage after a contemplated seaside rescue. There is irony in Foxham scolding Dick, who is nobly born, for consorting with outlaws when the outlaws are recruited in Dick and Foxham''s plans to rescue Joanna. Wounded in the failed seaside rescue, Foxham writes letters of recommendation for Dick to Richard Crookback, whom Dick must find on the outskirts of Shoreby. Richard Crookback, Duke of Gloucester, makes his appearance in Book 5. As Dick is leaving Shoreby he sees Crookback holding his own against seven or eight Lancastrian assailants, and assists his victory. Dick''s accurate knowledge of the Lancastrian forces in Shoreby aid Crookback in winning the battle that he wages later that day. Dick is also successful as one of Crookback''s commanders. Crookback knights Dick on the field of battle and, following their victory, gives him fifty horsemen to pursue Sir Daniel, who has escaped Shoreby with Joanna. Dick succeeds in rescuing Joanna, but loses his men in the process. He, Joanna, and Alicia Risingham travel to Holywood where he and Joanna are married. In this way he keeps his initial pledge to Joanna to convey her safely to Holywood. In the early morning of his wedding day Dick encounters a fugitive Sir Daniel trying to enter Holywood seaport to escape to France or Burgundy. Because it is his wedding day, Dick does not want to soil his hands with Sir Daniel''s blood, so he simply bars his way by challenging him either to hand-to-hand combat or alerting a Yorkist perimeter patrol. Sir Daniel retreats, but is shot by Ellis Duckworth (the outlaws'' captain) with the last black arrow. Thereafter Sir Richard and Lady Shelton live in Tunstall Moat House untroubled by the rest of the Wars of the Roses. They provide for both Captain Arblaster and the outlaw Will Lawless by pensioning them and settling them in Tunstall hamlet, where Lawless does a volte face by returning to the Franciscan order, taking the name, Brother Honestus.'
'drama','The story deals with Tom Brown''s efforts to save his fiance''s "black sheep" brother Wilfred Kenyon from disgrace. An unfortunate state of affairs exists between Wilfred and Marion Thorne, the sister of Gerald, who is stroking the varsity crew. The situation is misunderstood by all but Tom. Matters reach a climax on the day the big boat race between Harvard and a champion English crew. Thorne as he is about to enter the boat is given an anonymous note to the effect that Marion is about to leave town with one of the college men. He throws the race and rashes to his sister, whom he finds in possession of Tom''s check for an amount to cover her expenses. The check has been forged by Wilfred. Crazed with grief and anger, he rushes back to the boathouse. In the meantime, Tom Brown, Thorne''s substitute has stroked the Harvard crew to victory and he is faced by the irate Thorne, who brands him as a scoundrel, producing the check to substantiate his charges. Brown remains silent preferring to be misunderstood rather than expose his loved one''s brother. Wilfred confesses and wrongs are righted.'
'drama','"David Copperfield consists of three reels and as three separate films, released in three consecutive weeks, with three different titles: The Early Life of David Copperfield, Little Em''ly and David Copperfield and The Loves of David Copperfield.[4]'
'drama','Polly Biblett (Mary Pickford), a young lady, tells her grandmother Lettie about her new boyfriend. The news provokes the elderly woman to reminisce about her own sweetheart, long time before. The touching sequence expresses the power of lives going on, the older woman aging as her grandchildren grow and knowing they will soon have children of their own.'
'horror','White-haired Dr. Jekyll has secretly locked himself in his laboratory administering himself with a vial of formula. He slumps into his chair with his head on his chest. Slowly, as the drug takes effect, a dark-haired, taloned beast now appears in the chair. After repeated use, Jekyll''s evil alter ego emerges at will, causing Jekyll to murder his sweetheart''s father. The evil personality scuttles back to the laboratory only to discover that the antidote is finished and that he will be as Mr. Hyde forever. A burly policeman breaks down Jekyll''s door to find that the kindly doctor is dead after taking poison.'
'drama','The film is about a poor married couple living in New York City. The husband works as a musician and must often travel for work. When returning, his wallet is taken by a gangster. His wife goes to a ball where a man tries to drug her, but his attempt is stopped by the same man who robbed the husband. The two criminals become rivals, and a shootout ensues. The husband gets caught in the shootout and recognizes one of the men as the gangster who took his money. The husband sneaks his wallet back and the gangster goes to safety in the couple''s apartment. Policemen track the gangster down but the wife gives him a false alibi.'
'comedy','Only lasting 15 minutes, it is a light-hearted comedy about the battle between the sexes as several married couples go on a camp-out together. The women soon realize that the men expect them to do perform all of the work while they relax, leading to several comedic situations.'
'drama','The story is of an English manufacturing town {Huddersfield} in which Henry Little, a worker and inventor, is persecuted by trade unions, jealous because he was better trained than his fellows. Squire Raby, Little''s uncle, is a forcible character, and a pleasant love story offsets the labor troubles. A purpose of the novel was to expose, without censure, the errors of early trades unions.'
'comedy','Barney Oldfield races a speeding locomotive to rescue a damsel in distress tied up on the tracks by evil villain Ford Sterling.'
'comedy','Bob, a typically devoted husband, is told by his wife that the stork has paid a visit to their household; the first time, it turns out to be a puppy; the second time, expecting another canine, he is surprised to find the more traditional offspring.'
'comedy','Cohen (Ford Sterling) and his rival Goldberg (Henry Lehrman) enlist in the Union Army during the American Civil War. Goldberg receives a lieutenant’s commission while Cohen becomes a sergeant. During the Battle of Gettysburg, Cohen inadvertently becomes a hero when he tosses back an enemy hand grenade and raises a fallen flag in the midst of the conflict. Goldberg conspires to have Cohen shot by a firing squad, but Cohen’s girlfriend Rebecca (Mabel Normand) rides to the rescue and details Cohen’s battlefield bravery. Cohen is hailed for his valor and later exacts revenge on Goldberg.'
'horror','Dr. Henry Jekyll (King Baggot) sends a note to his fiancée, Alice (Jane Gail), and her father (Matt B. Snyder) to say that instead of accompanying them to the opera, he must give more time to his charity patients. At Jekyll’s practice, his friends Dr. Lanyon (Howard Crampton) and Utterson (William Sorrel), a lawyer, ridicule him for what they consider his dangerous research. Alice and her father also visit Jekyll’s rooms, but although apologetic, the doctor insists on devoting his time to his patients. That night, however, Jekyll undertakes a dangerous experiment, swallowing a drug intended to releases his evil self. His body convulses, and he transforms into a hunched, twisted figure. The strange creature emerges from Jekyll’s room, bearing a note in Jekyll’s handwriting that orders the household staff to treat the stranger – “Mr Hyde” – as himself. Hyde then slips out into the night, terrorising the patrons of a nearby tavern before finding himself lodgings. From these rooms he begins a career of evil, until one night he attacks and injures a crippled child. Outraged witnesses corner Hyde and force him to agree to compensate the boy. Hyde reluctantly leads one man back to Jekyll’s house and gives him money. During this passage of events, a worried Dr. Utterson sees Hyde entering Jekyll’s house. Inside, Hyde takes a potion that transforms him back to Jekyll. The doctor swears that he will abandon his experiments and never tempt fate again; but that night, without taking the drug, he turns spontaneously into Hyde.'
'crime','The Evidence of the Film tells the story of a messenger boy at a film studio who is wrongfully accused of stealing bonds worth $20,000. He is saved by his sister, a film cutter, who comes across some footage of her brother inadvertently walking into a location shot and being knocked down by the real-life villain.'
'drama','As described in a 1913 blurb: "The foreman of the sawmill misconstrues the disappearance of his ward who has taken drastic measures to protect her guardian''s interests. A startling incident reveals the girl''s motive."[2]'
'drama','The setting is an early American village, where a young Quaker woman, Priscilla (played by Glaum), is in love with the schoolmaster, John Hart (played by Ray). The local minister, Rev. Cole (played by Taylor), who calls on her at her cabin with flowers, is an unwelcome suitor. In revenge, he has "blue laws" passed, among them is one requiring attendance at church on Sunday. Priscilla refuses to comply with the law and is arrested. After being plunged in and out of water and pilloried, she is banished from the colony. John goes with her. They are attacked by Indians and John is badly wounded. Priscilla manages to get back to the village in time to warn the Puritans of an impending attack. They defeat the Indians after a desperate battle. The Rev. Cole, who has been mortally wounded, begs Priscilla''s forgiveness and the Puritans make amends for their harsh treatment of her.[1]'
'drama','The film begins with the Dreamer, a restless and disappointed dreamer who has a wife and child. He gazes at his hands and dreams of becoming a conqueror, but laments that no chance comes to him and continues to dream. The Dreamer becomes the subject of ridicule and his wife becomes the subject of pity by the community. The Dreamer decides enter the world of men and abandons his wife leaving her to seek refuge in her father. Her father wishes for her to marry a wealthy gentleman who is also a stranger in the town. The Dreamer heads into the desert and wanders until exhaustion takes its toll. A woman, "The Desert Flower", finds him and takes him to her hut in the desert. There the woman spends her time looking over the garments of the man who courted her, the same stranger now attempting to marry the Dreamer''s wife. The woman learns of the Dreamer''s story and shows the dreamer the futility of conquering worlds unknown when he cannot conquer his own small corner of the world.[1] The Dreamer sees himself in the roles of great conquerors, but each vision ends with death. The Dreamer''s wife has been kicked out for refusing to marry the stranger, and is reunited with the Dreamer on the edge of the desert. The stranger is sent out into the desert and the Dreamer and his wife return to the town. In time, the Dreamer becomes respected by the community.[2]'
'drama','A telephone operator is walking out with a handsome police sergeant; her father insists that the husband for her is a plump, comfortable grocery store owner. The Lady picks up her jewels from the jewellery and brings them home, followed by a jewel thief on a stolen bicycle. She puts them in her safe, and goes to give the telephone girl a present of a necklace in thanks for her work. As the Lady answers the telephone and accepts the Telephone Girl''s effusive thanks, the door creaks open – it is the masked thief! She tells the girl on the other end of the line that she''s being robbed. While the thief grills the lady, the telephone girl calls the police, but there''s a riot and calls about that prevent her getting through. She runs out of the exchange and spots the sergeant conveniently riding by. He lifts her onto his horse and they gallop to the rescue. Meanwhile, with an implicit rape threat the thief has forced the lady to reveal the safe concealed behind a picture. Just in time, the sergeant bursts in as the thief escapes with the jewels. After a rousing fight, helped by the feisty telephone girl and neighbours including a lady in a huge hat, the sergeant drags away the thief. The lady rewards the sergeant and the lovers fall into each other''s arms.'
'drama, horror','A young man (Henry B. Walthall) falls in love with a beautiful woman (Blanche Sweet), but is prevented by his uncle (Spottiswoode Aitken) from pursuing her. Tormented by visions of death and suffering and deciding that murder is the way of things, the young man kills his uncle and builds a wall to hide the body. The young man''s torment continues, this time caused by guilt over murdering his uncle, and he becomes sensitive to slight noises, like the tapping of a shoe or the crying of a bird. The ghost of his uncle begins appearing to him and, as he gradually loses his grip on reality, the police figure out what he has done and chase him down. In the ending sequence, we learn that the experience was all a dream and that his uncle is really alive.'
'drama','Frank Andrews (Donald Crisp) is a well-to-do, middle class apartment dweller who is devoted to his wife (Mary Alden) and two children, John (Robert Harron) and Jane (Lillian Gish). Andrews enters into a mid-life crisis when a fetching young lady, Cleo (Fay Tincher), moves into the apartment next door to the Andrews''. Cleo takes note of Andrews'' interest in her and begins to flirt with him, going so far as to set a fire in her apartment in order to attract his aid. Before long, Andrews and Cleo are involved in an affair, and Andrews begins to neglect both his family and responsibilities at work. Humiliated and aghast at her mother''s silent suffering over the situation, Jane goes next door with the idea of killing Cleo, but instead they strike up a conversation, and a mutual understanding. They hatch a plan whereby one of Cleo''s former beaus (Owen Moore) appears to be courting Jane in front of Andrews, who swiftly condemns his daughter''s interest in the man. Jane counters by pointing out Andrews'' own poor moral choices, and he sees the error of his ways. Andrews is happily reconciled to his family, and Cleo sets out in search of new digs.'
'comedy','Wealthy Edwin Peter Brewster disowns his son Robert when he marries Louise Sedgwick, a woman of modest means. Many years later, when Robert dies, however, E.P. Brewster leaves one million dollars to their son Monty, a bank clerk. Shortly thereafter, Monty learns that he has inherited seven million dollars from his Uncle George on the stipulation that Monty divest himself of his grandfather''s fortune within a year, without revealing why. A further stipulation is that the money must be used only for personal expenditures. Monty spends lavishly, invests in stock and makes a bet on a prize fight, but the bet and the stocks pay off. In desperation he rents and repairs a yacht to sail around the world. At one port, Monty saves Peggy Gray, his childhood sweetheart, from abduction by an Arab sheik. On the eve of gaining possession of the money, Monty proposes to Peggy, who eagerly accepts, thinking that Monty is a pauper. Then a cable informs Monty that Swearengen Jones, his uncle''s executor, has absconded with the fortune. Unperturbed, Peggy and Monty marry but then are presented with the inheritance as a wedding present by Jones, who turns out to be a practical joker.'
'comedy','In A Busy Day, a wife (played by an energetic Charlie Chaplin) becomes jealous of her husband''s interest in another woman during a military parade. On her way to attack the couple, the wife interrupts the set of a film, knocking over a film director and a police officer. Finally, the husband pushes the wife off a pier and she falls into the harbor.'
'adventure','Graehme, Ned Stewart''s father was accused of adultery and killed being innocent. Ned decided to avenge his father, but got captured and sent to the long journey to death "la longue traverse". Fortunately Virginia saves his life and the story''s villain confesses Ned''s innocence.'
'historical drama','A melodrama about an American who becomes a revolutionary leader battling evil government spies in Argentina. William Desmond Taylor portrays the title role, and Denis Gage Deane-Tanner, Taylor''s younger brother, is thought to have played the small role of a blacksmith.'
'comedy','Chaplin plays a waiter who fakes being a Greek Ambassador to impress a girl. He then is invited to a garden party where he gets in trouble with the girl''s jealous boyfriend. Mabel Normand wrote and directed comedies before Chaplin and mentored her young co-star.'
'comedy','The action starts in a park, where a man is trying to romance a matronly woman, wearing a fur stole. The man leaves to go to a concession stall, St Rucopias, and Charlie comes along in his infamous tramp costume. He makes the woman laugh by almost soaking himself at the drinking fountain. He then sits next to her on the bench. The original man returns and is angry. He grabs Charlie by the face. He argues with the woman, waving his arms around and hitting Charlie with each movement. His last swing knocks Charlie clean over the bench. They leave and return to a hotel. Charlie is despondent. He leaves the park and staggers, now apparently drunk, over a wide road, almost getting hit by a car. He arrives at the same hotel and after propositioning a girl outside, enters, falling over a man''s gout-bound leg at the reception desk. He checks the register to see which room the couple are in, who are meanwhile getting drunk themselves. Rushing up the stairs he slips, and slides comically back to the foot on his stomach. He makes several more dangerously balanced comical attempts, hitting the gout-bound man and his two female friends in the process. He approaches the hotel room, where the original couple are arguing. His key doesn''t fit but the door is open and he enters, at first not seeing the couple due to his drunken state. The man boots him out. Charlie tries another room with his key and gets in. He starts to undress and goes to bed. Meanwhile the man across the hall leaves his wife to go out. We are told she is a sleepwalker. She crosses the hall to sit on Charlie''s bed. However the rain starts and the husband returns to the hotel to find his room empty. Charlie, now awake meets him at his door and claims not to know where his wife is. While the man goes down to reception, Charlie takes her back to her room but gets trapped when the man returns. He ends up on the balcony in the rain. But then a policeman spots him and challenges him, drawing a gun. Enter the Keystone Cops. A comic battle ensues in the hallway. The husband ends up in Charlie''s room and collapses drunk on the bed. The cops disappear. The wife comes into the hall and she and Charlie fall down drunk on the floor.'
'fantasy drama','Cinderella is a kind young woman who lives with her wicked stepmother and ugly stepsisters. They abuse her and use her as the house maid. Cinderella thinks she''s all alone in the world, but doesn''t know a fairy godmother is constantly helping her. One day, she is collecting wood from the forest and meets Prince Charming. They immediately fall in love with each other, but lose contact. Soon, a ball is arranged by the prince to look for his future wife. The stepsisters think they make a great chance in being chosen by the prince. Cinderella wants to go as well, but isn''t allowed to by her cruel family. The sisters go to a fortune teller, who announces a member of the family will be chosen by the prince. The sisters are delighted and think it will be one of the two of them. When they leave for the ball, Cinderella is left behind. The fairy godmother appears and asks if she wants to go to the ball as well. When Cinderella responds positively, the fairy godmother orders her to bring her the biggest pumpkin she can find. Cinderella does so and the fairy godmother changes it into a luxurious stage coach. She next asks for the smallest mice she can find. Cinderella brings her some mice from the house and the fairy godmother changes them into horses. The fairy godmother next orders her to bring her the biggest rats there are. After Cinderella collected them, the fairy godmother changes them into servants. She finally changes Cinderella''s poor maiden costume into a dress fit for a princess, and glass slippers, of course. She reminds Cinderella she will have to be back at home before the clock strikes midnight. Otherwise, her fine dress will turn into rags and the coach and servants will become what they were before. As Cinderella arrives at the party, Prince Charming is already busy looking for his future wife. It is soon announced an unknown lady has arrived in a coach. Prince Charming immediately chooses her and they go to a private place where they learn to know each other. As they flirt, Cinderella notices it is almost twelve o''clock and storms out. She loses her glass slipper, before she turns into her old poor self again. The next day, the royal heralds announce the Prince''s wish to marry the woman whose foot fits the lost glass slipper. The sisters go to the palace to try fit their feet into the slippers, while Cinderella is yet again forced to stay home. It becomes clear the royal heralds every woman of the town has tried but failed to wear the slippers, except for Cinderella. Prince Charming immediately goes to visit her and is shocked when he finds out she is a poor maid. He doesn''t turn his back against her, though, and he invites her to try on the slipper. When she does, she is announced as the future princess. The royal heralds give her the opportunity to behead her sisters, but she refuses to. In the final scene, the fairy godmother appears and blesses her. Cinderella and Prince Charming live happily ever after.'
'comedy','Chaplin plays a character quite different from the Little Tramp for which he would become famous. In this short Keystone film, Chaplin is instead a rich, upper-class gentleman (Lord Helpus) whose romance is endangered when his girlfriend (played by Minta Durfee) sees him being embraced by her maid and jumps to the wrong conclusion. She angrily sends Lord Helpus away, saying she never wants to see him again. Distraught, when Lord Helpus arrives home he is determined to end his life. He swallows what he thinks is a glass of poison and envisions himself being tortured in Hell. Not long afterward, the girlfriend''s gardener and maid explain to Minta that Lord Helpus was not flirting at all. Minta quickly sends a note of apology to Lord Helpus. upon reading it, Lord Helpus flies into a panic and summons an ambulance to help him before he dies from the fatal dose of poison. There is no danger of Lord Helpus expiring: His butler had stealthily switched the liquid in the glass to harmless water. Chaplin''s romantic interest in this film, Minta Durfee, was the wife of fellow Keystone actor Roscoe "Fatty" Arbuckle.'
'comedy','The story involves Chaplin and Chester Conklin working as waiters at a restaurant. Charlie is especially inept and his comic carelessness enrages the customers. The workers in the restaurant''s bakery go on strike for more pay, but are fired by the unsympathetic proprietor. Charlie is put to work in the bakery where his lack of skills upsets his boss and co-worker Chester Conklin. Meanwhile, the vengeful strikers have arranged to smuggle a loaf of bread concealing a stick of dynamite into the bakery. During a free-for-all involving Charlie, Chester, and their boss, the dynamite dramatically explodes. At the end of the film, Charlie emerges groggily from a pile of sticky dough.'
'drama','The film begins with a short prologue explaining the science of Eugenics; contrasting the careful selection observed in the animal world with the less predictable breeding habits of humans. This is illustrated by the story of the Joyce family, headed by Jim Joyce (Turner), a cruel and senseless man. Joyce''s son Larry (Harron) is by nature a sensitive kid, but Jim Joyce turns him into a heartless monster, strangling a cat as a sort of coming of age ritual. Larry Joyce contracts a case of syphilis, and seeks out treatment from Doctor Von Eiden (Moore), who also takes a keen interest in Larry''s sister May (Sweet). Von Eiden encourages May to make a break with her family, and she succeeds. However she is unable to find employment and enters into a relationship with a wealthy senator (Lewis) as a kept woman. While May will not marry the Senator, her sister Jennie (Marsh) does marry a man named "Bull" McGee (Crisp), an abusive lout just like her father. Their infant child is killed when McGee trips over its cradle in a drunken stupor, and Jennie becomes delusional, endlessly rocking the cradle with a doll inside. McGee is repulsed by her condition and puts Jennie away quietly through selling her into prostitution. May manages to wrest Jennie away from this peril, but Jennie expires soon after. Von Eiden, however, has managed to restore Larry''s original sensitivity through a surgical procedure; May has broken off the relationship with the Senator and agrees to marry Von Eiden.'
'comedy','Mabel and her beau go to an auto race and are joined by Charlie and his friend. As Charlie''s friend is attempting to enter the raceway through a hole, the friend gets stuck and a policeman shows up.'
'comedy','In one of Chaplin''s "park comedies" for Keystone Studios, Charlie and his domineering wife, Mrs. Sniffles, are walking in the greensward. When Mrs. Sniffles falls asleep on a park bench, Charlie takes the opportunity to walk away from her. He encounters pretty Mabel. At the moment, Mabel''s husband, Ambrose, is occupied trying to help a stranger start his car. Charlie attempts to woo Mabel but is quickly rebuffed and a park policeman comes to her aid. Meanwhile Ambrose encounters Charlie''s wife and is attracted to her. He too is rebuffed. Ambrose and Charlie both run afoul of a pretty blonde woman and her fez-wearing escort. A park policeman pursues both Charlie and Ambrose for their unwanted attentions directed at strange women. Charlie is eventually caught by the policeman who brings him back to Mrs. Sniffles. She saves him from arrest but roughly begins to escort him home. Released on December 5, 1914, Getting Acquainted was the next-to-last movie that Chaplin made for Keystone Studios. It marked the final time he appeared in the same film as Mabel Normand.'
'drama','James Birch, an English hunter, is accidentally shot by the servant of Kirke Warren, a wild animal painter who is camping in the jungle. The terrified servant leaves the rifle, which is marked with his master''s initials beside the body of the man. Later Warren meets Mrs. Birch, the widow of the unfortunate hunter and is invited to a house party given by her. Here he finds the rifle, which she has kept in hopes of some time discovering the identity of her husband''s supposed murderer. Thinking that Warren is the man, she plans vengeance by sending him hunting with the rifle equipped with cartridges a size too large. As a result of these cartridges jamming when Warren is attacked by a lion, he is nearly killed by this ferocious beast. In the meantime, Mrs. Birch becoming conscience stricken, sets out to find the hunting party in order to prevent the catastrophe which she had planned. After losing her way and falling in with a band of hostile Zulus, she is rescued through the efforts of Warren, who though wounded, leads the searching party. While Warren is being nursed back to life, the servant confesses the truth about the shooting. Mr. Warren and Mrs. Birch discover that she and Warren have grown to love one another.'
'biographical drama','John Howard Payne leaves home and begins a career in the theater. Despite encouragement from his mother and girlfriend, Payne begins to lead a dissolute life that leads to ruin and depression. In deep despair, he thinks of better days, and writes a song, Home! Sweet Home! that later provides inspiration to several others in their own times of need.'
'documentary drama','The following plot synopsis was published in conjunction with a 1915 showing of the film at Carnegie Hall:'
'comedy','Pug, a down-and-out hobo, is talked into pretending he is Cyclone Flynn, the boxing champion, and entering the ring for a fight. When the real Cyclone shows up, Pug ends up having to trade punches with him instead.'
'comedy','We are told Charlie is a dental assistant. He arrives at work where the patients are already waiting. He joins the tiny second dental assistant in the back room. They have a brief squabble then Charlie goes to the waiting room to clean the floor with a carpet sweeper. He bumps into a patient and a further squabble starts. Then back to the rear room for more squabbling. The dentist arrives, and his first patient goes in, obviously in pain. The dentist prepares the nitrous oxide anaesthesic (also known commonly as "laughing gas" due to its effects prior to and after unconsciousness). With the man unconscious he pulls his tooth, but then he can''t get him to wake up. He calls for Charlie and when he arrives the dentist runs off. Charlie tries to wake him and eventually tries hitting his head with a mallet. The man revives but starts laughing. Charlie knocks him out with the mallet. The dentist then returns and Charlie is sent to the drug store to get a prescription. After more fighting with the patients he goes from Dr Pain''s surgery to the Sunset Pharmacy. He strikes a man standing at a news-stand outside. He looks at a woman (the dentist''s wife) and Charlie kicks him in the stomach before chasing the woman himself, and an incident occurs where she loses her skirt and runs off in embarrassment. He continues fighting with the man, who receives a brick in the face, thus becoming another dental patient. A second brick hits a passer-by equally losing him a tooth. Meanwhile, the dentist gets a phone call from his maid to say his wife has had an "accident" and he goes home. Charlie returns to find the surgery empty. He picks the prettier of the two female patients in the waiting room. The other lady leaves, leaving them alone. Charlie flirts with her and looks very closely into her mouth, stealing kisses. Meanwhile, the two men struck by bricks arrive. The girl leaves. The tall passerby goes in next. Charlie uses a huge pair of pliers to remove another tooth. With all the noise the news-stand victim enters and a final fight ensues.'
'comedy','Charlie offers Mabel a ride on his two-seater motorcycle, which she accepts in preference to his rival''s racing car. Unfortunately as they go over a bump, she falls off into a puddle. The rival, who has followed in his car, picks up the now stranded Mabel. He lets her drive, sitting tight beside her. Charlie at last notices she is gone and falls off the bike. He sees them together now stopped and standing beside the car. They leave the car for a short while and Charlie lets down the rear tyre. His rival returns and is furious. They throw rocks at Charlie and he throws them back. The rival''s friend appears and gets caught up in the rock-throwing confusion. We cut to "The Auto Race" where Charlie hovers round the cars. The drivers usher him away when they see he has a sharp pin. Charlie stands puffing heavily on a cigarette. He uses his pin to get through the crowd, where he propositions Mabel and gets slapped. Charlie then whistles and two thugs appear and kidnap his rival just before the race starts. But Mabel decides to don his racing clothes and take the wheel in his place. As the race progresses, despite a very late start, Mabel, with a co-driver beside her, manages to gain a lead of three laps. Charlie with his henchmen, tries to sabotage the race by using oil and bombs on the track. The oil temporarily spins Mabel''s car, no.4, around and it goes backwards for a lap until the oil spins it around again to continue the right way. The car tips over on a bend but a group of men push the heavy Bentley V8 upright again. Meanwhile the rival escapes his ropes and sees Mabel driving his car. The crowd stand as she crosses the finishing line. The rival and his friend go to congratulate her. Meanwhile Charlie throws a bomb in the air and blows up both himself and his two thugs.'
'comedy','Mabel''s Blunder tells the tale of a young woman who is secretly engaged to the boss''s son.[1] The young man''s sister comes to visit at their office, and a jealous Mabel, not knowing who the visiting woman is, dresses up as a (male) chauffeur to spy on them.'
'comedy','Chaplin, in tramp attire, sits in the park with his wife, Mabel. While he is gone to a bar, a large man holding a tennis racquet moves in on his wife. Chaplin returns to find them laughing together. But despite kicking him and hitting him with his cane the man is undeterred in his wooing of his wife. The man drags Mabel down to the edge of the lake in the park. Meanwhile, Charlie finds the man''s wife and they return together, where the wife first confronts her husband, but then ends up confronting Mabel. She goes to strike her but hits Charlie instead. The couple then leave. Mabel heads home but stops at a sporting goods store where she orders a man-shaped punch-bag. It is delivered whilst she is in her pyjamas. She wraps herself in a leopard-skin rug to answer the door. She starts practicing boxing moves on the dummy/punchbag. It is weighted so it swings back and knocks her over. Meanwhile, Charlie returns to the bar. A man there ridicules Charlie''s clothes, particularly his baggy trousers. Then the first man reappears further ridiculing Charlie who is by now drunk. Charlie returns home, inexplicably holding a bunch of fresh onions, and trying to work out what the smell is. He throws them away. They fly through an open door and onto Mabel who is in bed. Charlie in his drunken state sees the dummy as the rival and prepares to fight. Mabel watches from the bedroom, frustrated by his actions. Charlie demands the dummy leaves. He pushes it. It swings back then rolls forward again striking Charlie. Charlie tries to placate it but ends up striking it again. Each time he hits it, it hits him back harder. Mabel joins in the fight then reveals to Charlie that it is just a dummy. Meanwhile, neighbour get concerned at the noise.'
'comedy','In a hotel lobby a heavily drunk tramp runs into an elegant lady, Mabel, who gets tied up in her dog''s leash, and falls down. He later runs into her in the hotel corridor, locked out of her room. They run through various rooms. Mabel ends up in the room of an elderly husband where she hides under the bed. Enter the jealous wife, who soon attacks Mabel, her husband, and Mabel''s lover, not to mention the staggeringly drunken tramp.'
'comedy','Chaplin''s character attempts to convince a passerby (director Henry Lehrman) to give him money. Chaplin is then shown flirting with a woman and proposes to her, which she accepts. Lehrman enters to present the woman with flowers and a ring, which the woman refuses citing she''s engaged. Lerhman sees Chaplin and a slapstick fight between the two ensues. Later, Lehrman''s character takes a photograph of an automobile accident; Chaplin''s character steals the camera whilst the journalist is helping a trapped motorist and rushes back to the paper with it to claim the photograph as his own. A short pursuit with the Keystone Kops follows.[2]'
'comedy','The Masquerader is a comedy short whose plot revolves around making films at Keystone. Charlie plays an actor who bungles several scenes and is kicked off the studio. The next day a strange beautiful woman appears to audition for the film. It''s Charlie in drag. After doing a perfect impersonation of a female, Charlie has drawn the attention of the director who hires the new "actress'' in his films. The director gives the beautiful woman the men''s dressing room to change in. While there Charlie''s returns to his tramp costume. When the director returns, looking for the woman, he finds Charlie and realizes he has been tricked. Angry, the director chases Charlie through the studio until Charlie decides to jump into what he thinks is a prop well. The film ends with the director and other actors laughing at Charlie as he is trapped in the bottom of a real well. The plot involving a man dressing up as a woman was quite popular in silent movies.'
'fantasy','The daughter of King Neptune takes on human form to avenge the death of her young sister, who was caught in a fishing net. However, she falls in love with the king, the man she holds responsible.'
'comedy','The hero, a janitor played by Chaplin, is fired from work for accidentally knocking his bucket of water out the window and onto his boss, the chief banker (Tandy). Meanwhile, one of the junior managers (Dillon) is being threatened with exposure by his bookie for his unpaid gambling debts. Thus the manager decides to steal from the company. He is caught in the act of raiding the vault by the bank secretary (Carruthers) who rings for help. Chaplin comes to the rescue only to be misjudged by the chief banker as the thief. The secretary fingers the manager and Charlie receives a just reward and a handshake for foiling the robbery.'
'adventure serial','The premise of the story was that Pauline''s wealthy guardian Mr. Marvin, upon his death, has left her inheritance in the care of his secretary, Mr. Koerner, until the time of her marriage. Pauline wants to wait a while before marrying, as her dream is to go out and have adventures to prepare herself for becoming an author. Mr. Koerner, hoping to ultimately keep the money for himself, tries to turn Pauline''s various adventures against her and have her "disappear" to his own advantage.'
'comedy','Charlie is in charge of stage "props" and has trouble with actors'' luggage and conflicts over who gets the star''s dressing room. Small caricatures on the wall indicate both the stars and the head of what can only be Charlie Chaplin with the word "PROPS" below. Once the dressing-room issue is resolved the next issue is getting everyone on stage with the correct backdrop. The order of performance, all of which is seen is: The "Goo-Goo Sisters", billed as comediennes; two young girls dancing "Garlico" and his Feets of Strength (sic); a strong-man aided by his beautiful assistant who gets knocked out just before she goes on stage, allowing Charlie to step in. "Sorrow" a drama performed by a man and woman. During the performances we see the audience reaction throughout, ranging from delight to booing. Backstage Charlie and an old man fight, often disrupting the on-stage performances. The audience also breaks into a fight, and a hose brought out behind the scenes ends up squirting over them.'
'western','Esra Kincaid (La Reno) takes land by force and, having taken the Espinoza land, his sights are set on the Castro rancho. US government agent Kearney (Johnston) holds him off till the cavalry shows up and he can declare his love for Juanita "The Rose of the Rancho" (Barriscale).'
'comedy','A drunk reveller (Chaplin) returns home to a scolding from his wife. Then his equally inebriated neighbor (Arbuckle) goes home to a cold reception from his wife. When the first couple hear the physical altercation across the hall (the second man starts strangling his wife after she hits him), the reveller''s wife sends him to investigate. The two men flee together and end up in a cafe, where they also cause trouble. When their spouses track them down, they escape, this time to a leaky rowboat. Safely out of reach of their wives, they fall asleep, oblivious to the rising water into which they eventually disappear.'
'western','Rough-and-tumble Gold Rush-era California: a woman (Salomy Jane) is saved from a ruffian (Red Pete) by a heroic stranger (Jack Dart), the latter saved from a lynching when falsely accused of a crime.'
'drama','Grace Roberts (played by Lea Leland), marries rancher Edward Smith, who is revealed to be a neglectful, vice-ridden spouse. They have a daughter, Vivian. Dr. Franklin (Leonid Samoloff) whisks Grace away from this unhappy life, and they move to New York under aliases, pretending to be married (since surely Smith would not agree to a divorce). Grace and Franklin have a son, Walter (Milton S. Gould). Vivian gets sick, however, and Grace and Franklin return to save her. Somehow this reunion, as Smith had assumed Grace to be dead, causes the death of Franklin. This plot device frees Grace to return to her father''s farm with both children.[1]'
'western','James Wynnegate (Dustin Farnum) and his cousin, Henry (Monroe Salisbury), are upper class Englishmen and have been made trustees for an orphans’ fund. Henry loses money in a bet at a derby and embezzles money from “the fund” to pay off his debts. When war office officials are informed of the money missing from “the fund," they pursue James, but he successfully escapes to Wyoming. There, James rescues Nat-U-Ritch (Lillian St. Cyr), daughter to the chief of the Utes tribe, from local outlaw Cash Hawkins (William Elmer). Hawkins plans to exact his revenge on James, but has his plans thwarted by Nat-U-Ritch, who fatally shoots him. Later, James gets into an accident in the mountains and needs to be rescued. Nat-U-Ritch tracks him down and carries him back to safety. As she nurses him back to health, they fall in love and later have a child. Meanwhile, during an exploration of the Alps, Henry falls off a cliff. Before he succumbs to his injuries, Henry signs a letter of confession proclaiming James’ innocence in the embezzlement. Before Henry''s widow, Lady Diana (Winifred Kingston), and others arrive in Wyoming to tell James about the news, the Sheriff recovers the murder weapon that was used against Cash Hawkins inside of James and Nat-U-Ritch''s home. Realizing their son was not safe, the couple sends him away, leaving them both distraught. Facing the possibilities of losing both her son and her freedom, Nat-U-Ritch decides to take her own life instead. The movie ends with both the chief of the Utes tribe and James embracing her body. [1]'
'comedy','The Masher played by Charlie Chaplin fights for the attention of the landlady with the Rival played by Chester Conklin at the beginning of the film. The Masher makes his attempt first. While he is talking to the Landlady played by Helen Carruthers the Rival pokes him with a fork from behind a curtain. The Masher gets upset and returns to the table. The Rival makes a gesture to the Masher and goes on to talk to the landlady. As the Masher sweet talks the Landlady, the Rival does the same thing the Masher did to him. The Landlady gets upset and walks away from the Masher. Upset, the Masher returns to the table and takes the Rival outside by his tie.[1] They eventually go their separate ways when the Masher goes into a bar and the Rival keeps walking toward the park. Before the Masher goes into the bar, he is distracted by a blonde girl (Cecile Arnold) who blinks at him. The girl turns and the Masher fallows her until her tall boyfriend appears. The Masher runs away.[1] Once at the park the Masher finds the Rival with a Brunette girl (Vivian Edwards). The girl the Masher had encountered before ends up at the park as well with her boyfriend. The Masher becomes jealous. He follows the two girls to a theater where he sits between them. He finally has the attention of both girls and zones off. The boyfriend and the Rival come into the theater to find the Masher with their respected girlfriends. The girls see their boyfriends and run out of the theater. The Masher is in his own world and did not realized the girls had been replaced by the tall boyfriend and the Rival. He opens his eyes and realizes what is happening. He quickly jumps up and the two upset men fight him. The Masher gets thrown into the screen.[1]'
'comedy','Charles Chaplin portrays a womanizing city man who meets Tillie (Marie Dressler) in the country after a fight with his girlfriend (Mabel Normand). When he sees that Tillie''s father (Mack Swain) has a very large bankroll for his workers, he persuades her to elope with him. In the city, he meets the woman he was seeing already, and tries to work around the complication to steal Tillie''s money. He gets Tillie drunk in a restaurant and asks her to let him hold the pocketbook. Since she is drunk, she agrees, and he escapes with his old girlfriend and the money. Later that day, they see a picture show entitled "A Thief''s Fate", which illustrates their thievery in the form of a morality play. They both feel guilty and leave the theater. While sitting on a park bench, a paperboy (Gordon Griffith) asks him to buy a newspaper. He does so, and reads the story about Tillie''s Uncle Banks (Charles Bennett), a millionaire who died while on a mountain-climbing expedition. Tillie is named sole heir and inherits three million dollars. The man leaves his girlfriend on the park bench and runs to the restaurant, where Tillie is now forced to work to support herself as she is too embarrassed to go home. He begs her to take him back and although she is skeptical at first, she believes that he truly loves her and they marry. They move into the uncle''s mansion and throw a big party, which ends horribly when Tillie finds her husband with his old girlfriend, smuggled into the house and working as one of their maids. The uncle is found on a mountaintop, alive after all. He goes back to his mansion, in disarray after Tillie instigated a gunfight (a direct result of the husband smuggling the old girlfriend into the house) which, luckily, did not harm anyone. Uncle Banks insists that Tillie be arrested for the damage she has caused to his house. The three run from the cops all the way to a dock, where a car "bumps" Tillie into the water. She flails about, hoping to be rescued. She is eventually pulled to safety, and both Tillie and the man''s girlfriend realize that they are too good for him. He leaves, and the two girls become friends.'
'drama','Baron Yamaki (Sessue Hayakawa) is a fisherman who lives along with his daughter Toya San (Tsuru Aoki) on an island. The island is inhabited by Buddhists and Yamaki had been cursed by Buddha for an affront by one of his ancestors who in a murderous rage, defiled an altar of Buddha in the nearby temple. The curse was that if his daughter married anyone, then the nearby volcano would erupt. Toya finds it difficult to form relationships with boys because the village prophet Takeo (Thomas Kurihara) has spread the rumour that she is cursed. She is therefore unwilling to continue her father''s acceptance of the curse. When Yamaki takes Toya-san to the Buddha shrine in the garden of his house to pray and try to get the curse removed, she vents her feelings about the god''s unfairness. An American sailor, Tom Wilson (Frank Borzage), whose ship has been wrecked in a storm comes to them for help and shelter. Wilson falls in love with Toya and teaches her about Christianity. To the consternation of her father, Toya decides to convert and marry Tom at the local Japanese-American mission. However, her father also converts. The locals, who have been stirred up by Takeo, go on a murderous rampage against the family. They first go to the chapel but the newlyweds evade them and so they go to the beach house instead. When the mob reaches his house, Yamaki throws out the Buddha statue he had set up in his house and puts a cross in its place. The villagers are infuriated by this; they beat him to death beneath the cross and burn his house. Eventually, the volcano erupts and the village is destroyed, and Takeo dies in an avalanche. Only Tom Wilson and Toya San survive. They are taken away from the destroyed village by a United States merchant vessel. At the end of the film, Tom tells his bride, "Your gods may be powerful, Toya San, but mine has proved his omnipotence. You are saved to perpetuate your race."'
'comedy','Ted Ewing (Edward Abeles) invests both his own and the money of his fiancée, Nora Heldreth (Betty Schade), when a broker friend offers big investment returns. After the broker friend disappears, though, Ewing believes that he has squandered their money, and sets out on a course of action to recover it. He takes out a life insurance policy and then tries to get himself "accidentally" killed. His numerous attempts are to no avail. Next he hires some strong arms to kill him since they have apparently been following him anyway. He gives the money for his murder for hire to his valet, Oki (Sessue Hayakawa). But then the broker returns and Ewing discovers that his investment has doubled! With the strong arms after him, Ewing must straighten out the situation before it''s too late.'
'historical drama','Anna Karenina is a married aristocrat and socialite living in Saint Petersburg. She is living a torrid romance with a wealthy and young count, he loves her and is willing to marry her once she leave her husband. However, Russian''s society rejection makes her feel isolated, possessive and even paranoid due to her infidelity''s suspicions which will lead eventually to her suicide.'
'epic','The film follows two juxtaposed families. One is the Northern Stonemans: abolitionist U.S. Representative Austin Stoneman (based on the Reconstruction-era Representative Thaddeus Stevens),[14][15] his daughter, and two sons. The other is the Southern Camerons: Dr. Cameron, his wife, their three sons and two daughters. Phil, the elder Stoneman son, falls in love with Margaret Cameron, during the brothers'' visit to the Cameron estate in South Carolina, representing the Old South. Meanwhile, young Ben Cameron idolizes a picture of Elsie Stoneman. During the Civil War, the young men from both families enlist in their respective armies for the war. The younger Stoneman and two of the Cameron brothers are killed in the war. Meanwhile, the Cameron women are rescued by Confederate soldiers who rout a black militia, after an attack on the Cameron home. Ben Cameron leads a heroic charge at the Siege of Petersburg, earning the nickname of "the Little Colonel". But he is also wounded and captured. He is then taken to a Union hospital in Washington, D.C. During his stay at the hospital, he is told that he will be hanged. Also at the hospital, he meets Elsie Stoneman, whose picture he has been carrying; she is working there as a nurse. Elsie takes Cameron''s mother, who had traveled to Washington to tend her son, to see Abraham Lincoln, and Mrs. Cameron persuades the President to pardon Ben. When Lincoln is assassinated at Ford''s Theatre, his conciliatory postwar policy expires with him. In the wake of the president''s death, Austin Stoneman and other Radical Republicans are determined to punish the South, employing harsh measures that Griffith depicts as having been typical of the Reconstruction Era.[16] Stoneman and his protégé Silas Lynch, a mulatto exhibiting psychopathic tendencies,[17] head to South Carolina to observe the implementation of Reconstruction policies firsthand. During the election, in which Lynch is elected lieutenant governor, blacks are observed stuffing the ballot boxes, while many Whites are denied the vote. The newly elected, mostly black members of the South Carolina legislature are shown at their desks displaying inappropriate behavior, such as one member taking off his shoe and putting his feet up on his desk, and others drinking liquor and feasting on stereotypically African-American fare such as fried chicken. Meanwhile, inspired by observing white children pretending to be ghosts to scare black children, Ben fights back by forming the Ku Klux Klan. As a result, Elsie, out of loyalty to her father, breaks off her relationship with Ben. Later, Flora Cameron goes off alone into the woods to fetch water and is followed by Gus, a freedman and soldier who is now a captain. He confronts Flora and tells her that he desires to get married. Frightened, she flees into the forest, pursued by Gus. Trapped on a precipice, Flora warns Gus she will jump if he comes any closer. When he does, she leaps to her death. Having run through the forest looking for her, Ben has seen her jump; he holds her as she dies, then carries her body back to the Cameron home. In response, the Klan hunts down Gus, tries him, finds him guilty, and lynches him. Lynch then orders a crackdown on the Klan after discovering Gus'' murder. He also secures the passing of legislation allowing mixed-race marriages. Dr. Cameron is arrested for possessing Ben''s Klan regalia, now considered a crime punishable by death. He is rescued by Phil Stoneman and a few of his black servants. Together with Margaret Cameron, they flee. When their wagon breaks down, they make their way through the woods to a small hut that is home to two sympathetic former Union soldiers who agree to hide them. An intertitle states, "The former enemies of North and South are united again in defense of their Aryan birthright." Congressman Stoneman leaves to avoid being connected with Lt. Gov. Lynch''s crackdown. Elsie, learning of Dr. Cameron''s arrest, goes to Lynch to plead for his release. Lynch, who had been lusting after Elsie, tries to force her to marry him, which causes her to faint. Stoneman returns, causing Elsie to be placed in another room. At first, Stoneman is happy when Lynch tells him he wants to marry a white woman, but is then angered when Lynch tells him that it is Stoneman''s daughter. Undercover Klansmen spies go to get help when they discover Elsie''s plight after she breaks a window and cries out for help. Elsie falls unconscious again, and revives while gagged and being bound. The Klan, gathered together at full strength and with Ben leading them, rides in to gain control of the town. When news about Elsie reaches Ben, he and others go to her rescue. Elsie frees her mouth and screams for help. Lynch is captured. Victorious, the Klansmen celebrate in the streets. Meanwhile, Lynch''s militia surrounds and attacks the hut where the Camerons are hiding. The Klansmen, with Ben at their head, race in to save them just in time. The next election day, blacks find a line of mounted and armed Klansmen just outside their homes, and are intimidated into not voting. The film concludes with a double wedding as Margaret Cameron marries Phil Stoneman and Elsie Stoneman marries Ben Cameron. The masses are shown oppressed by a giant warlike figure who gradually fades away. The scene shifts to another group finding peace under the image of Jesus Christ. The penultimate title is: "Dare we dream of a golden day when the bestial War shall rule no more. But instead — the gentle Prince in the Hall of Brotherly Love in the City of Peace."'
'historical','The Captive chronicles the life of a young woman named Sonia Martinovitch (Blanche Sweet) who lived during the midst of the Balkan Wars. She lives close to the Turkish border on a small farm in Montenegro with her older brother Marko Martinovich (Page Peters) and younger brother Milo (Gerald Ward). Nearby, a Turkish nobleman by the name of Mahmud Hassan (House Peters) lives in a lavish palace. Marko Martinovich fights in the Battle of Lule Burgess, and is tragically killed, leaving Martinovich and her remaining brother, Milo, helpless. Subsequently, Hassan is taken prisoner, and assigned to the Martinovich’s farm to help her with the chores Sonia is unable to complete without her brother. In the beginning, Sonia holds Hassan captive with the use of her bullwhip [5] and forces him to complete tasks like getting water, baking, and plowing fields. Hassan begins to befriend young Milo to alleviate his humiliation and suffering.[5] Gradually, Sonia warms up to him and they fall deeply in love. The war waged on, and the Turks recaptured the village where Sonia, Hassan and Milo live. Unfortunately, a drunken officer (William Elmer) tries to force himself on Martinovich, but she refuses. Fueled by love, Hassan intervenes, despite the fact that the officer shares his national origin. When the Turkish army is driven out of the village, Hassan returns home only to be faced with the grim reality that he has been stripped of his title, his land has been taken, and he has banished from his homeland, all for thwarting the drunken officer away from Sonia. Meanwhile, at the farm, a pack of unruly scavengers have burned the Martinovich family’s modest house, forcing them to abandon the place they call home. The siblings meet Hassan on the road, and the lovebirds and Milo walk off to begin a new life together.[6]'
'adventure','Don José, an officer of the law, is seduced by the gypsy girl Carmen, in order to facilitate her clan''s smuggling endeavors. Don José becomes obsessed, turning to violent crime himself in order to keep the attention of Carmen.'
'comedy short','In this comedy, Charlie Chaplin has a companion--a pet bulldog. Walking along a street with his bulldog, Charlie finds a "good luck" horseshoe just as he passes the training camp of an enormous fighter named Spike Dugan. Outside the camp is a large, painted advertisement which states Dugan is seeking sparring partners "who can take a take a punch." After watching other better fighters be soundly beaten by Dugan, Charlie decides his best bet is to put the horseshoe inside his boxing glove. Using the loaded glove, Charlie connects with a solid punch and wins. The trainer prepares Charlie to fight the world champion. A gambler wants Charlie to throw the fight. He and the trainer''s daughter fall in love.'
'drama','Socialite Edith Hardy (Ward) has extravagant tastes. Her stockbroker husband Richard (Dean), with all of his money tied up in a very promising investment, insists she send back an expensive dress she has just bought. When she asks an acquaintance what he could do with $10,000, he assures her he could double it overnight. She gives him the Red Cross funds entrusted to her as the charity''s treasurer. The next day, however, he reports that the money is gone. Hishituru Tori (Hayakawa), a wealthy Japanese admirer (changed in the film''s 1918 re-release to a Burmese ivory king named "Haka Arakau"), overhears and offers her a loan, if she is willing to pay the price of her virtue. The same day, her husband is jubilant that his gamble has paid off. She asks him for $10,000, which she explains is to cover her losses playing bridge. She visits Tori and tries to pay him back, but he refuses to cancel their bargain. She threatens to kill herself, but he is so confident that she is bluffing that he hands her a pistol. When she continues to resist his advances, he subdues her and brands her on the back of the shoulder with the seal with which he marks all of his property. Edith grabs the gun and shoots him in the shoulder, then flees. Richard, having followed her after she left their home, finds Tori and picks up the gun. He is held for the police by Tori''s servants. When questioned, he confesses to the crime to protect his wife. When Edith visits him in jail, Richard orders her to remain silent. During the trial, both he and Tori testify on the stand that he was the shooter. However, when he is found guilty, Edith rushes to the judge and announces she did it. When she shows the brand to all, the judge and officers of the court have great difficulty keeping the outraged spectators from attacking Tori. The judge sets aside the verdict, and Edith and Richard depart the courtroom.[3]'
'comedy, western','Chimmie is sent out west as part of a scam by a railroad company. He is to pretend to find gold, then retreat as the company takes advantage. Things do not go as planned.'
'drama','Based on a summary in a film magazine,[2] Enoch, Annie, and Walter grow up as friends. Later, Annie decides to marry Enoch, but Walter, though bitter about the decision, remains their friend. Enoch and Annie have two children. Then business takes Enoch on a sailing voyage, which he states will take less than one year, and he asks Walter to look over his family while he is gone. Enoch does not return, and Walter dutifully cares after Enoch''s wife and children. After ten years word comes of a wreck seen in the Pacific, and everyone believes Enoch has died. Walter and Annie then marry. One night a stranger comes to the house and through a window sees Walter, Annie, and the children happy. The stranger, who is Enoch, finds an old woman who tells him what happened. Enoch tells her to keep his secret, and then leaves. He later dies with a smile on his face.'
'drama','John Schuyler (Edward José), a rich Wall Street lawyer and diplomat, is a husband and a devoted family man. He is sent to England on a diplomatic mission without his wife and daughter. On the ship he meets the "Vampire woman" (Theda Bara) who uses her charms to seduce men, only to leave after ruining their lives. Completely under the influence of this woman, Schuyler loses his job and abandons his family. All attempts by his family to get him back on the right path fail and the "fool" plunges ever deeper into degradation.'
'drama','Considered a coward by his fiancée and comrades in arms, a British army officer has to redeem himself.'
'comedy','A farm youth goes to college, pursues the pretty co-eds and joins a fraternity.'
'comedy','Luke (Harold Lloyd) works in a shoe store, but has difficulty focusing on work when a pretty girl is near.'
'drama','The film tells the story of Pietro "Beppo" Donnetti. Donnetti is a poor, but happy, gondolier in Venice, Italy. Beppo falls in love with Annette Ancello, but her father, Trudo, wants her to marry another suitor, one who is a successful businessman. If Beppo can prove himself within a year, Trudo agrees to allow him to marry Annette. Beppo sails for America to make his fortune, making a living working as a shoeshiner on a street corner in New York City. He borrows money from an Irish ward boss, Bill Corrigan, and sends for Annette to join him. In exchange, Beppo agrees to help Corrigan''s candidate win the Italian vote in the ward. When Annette arrives in New York, she and Beppo are married, and the following year they have a son, Tony. Beppo, Annette and Tony live a happy life in their Lower East Side tenement. The happiness is interrupted when the baby contracts a fever during a heatwave. The doctor instructs them to feed pasteurized milk to the baby. Beppo works hard to earn the money to purchase the expensive milk. While walking to the store to buy the milk, Beppo is robbed. He attacks the men who robbed him and is arrested. Beppo asks Corrigan to help his baby while he is in jail: "I must get-a-de-milk or my babee is die." Corrigan rebuffs Beppo, and Beppo''s baby dies during Beppo''s five days in jail. When Beppo is released from jail, he learns that Corrigan''s young daughter is ill and vows to avenge his son''s death by killing Corrigan''s daughter. Beppo sneaks into Corrigan''s house, but when he sees Corrigan''s daughter lying in her crib, he cannot act on his plan, and he leaves the child unharmed. In the final scene of the narrative, Beppo is shown placing flowers and sobbing over his son''s grave.'
'comedy','Dora and her father are lost in the kitchen (they have just fired their cook). An ad for new one in the newspaper attracts two crooks (one of which is Fritz Schade). He dresses like a woman to apply for the job. At his first opportunity he plans to loot the house, but just then, a cop on the beat stops in for coffee. Fritz locks the cop in the basement, picks up what things of value he can and escapes. He and his pal drive off in a Model T. Along the way Dora is kidnapped, the Keystone Cops give chase and all ends well in the end.'
'comedy short','Following a standard style of the era, the film is a romantic slapstick comedy short. Fields and his rival (played by Bud Ross) vie over the affections of a woman. When their antics get out of hand at a picnic, it is decided that they should play a game of pool. Both of them are pool sharks, and after the game turns into a farce, a fight ensues. Fields throws a ball at his rival, who ducks. The ball flies through the window and breaks a hanging goldfish bowl, soaking the woman they are fighting over and leaving goldfish in her hair. She storms into the pool hall and rejects both men.'
'biography','The film begins by tracing Poe''s ancestral heritage before Poe himself is born. After the loss of his parents, Poe is taken in by the John and Francis Allan in Richmond, Virginia. The film then jumps ahead about 15 years to Poe''s time at the University of Virginia. Due to debts from playing cards and a growing interest in wine, Poe begins to have difficulties. He hallucinates that he has killed a man in a pistol duel. Poe meets Virginia and they spend a day together, riding a horse and sitting "beside the glassy pool of romance." He tells her a fairy tale, a raven perching on Poe''s shoulder as he finishes the story, before they go on a walk together. Upon seeing a black slave (listed in the credits only as "Negro") being whipped, he buys the slave with an IOU for $600.00. The slave''s former owner then goes to John Allan to collect the debt. Allan calls Poe a "scoundrel" for causing so many bills. After having a drink with his "chum" Tony, Poe goes to visit Virginia. Tony follows shortly after and the two compete for Virginia''s affection. Later, Virginia says she will choose the man who guesses which hand holds a wreath behind her back. Poe allows Tony to go first and, though he guesses correctly, Virginia secretly switches the wreath to the other hand so that Poe can win. Shortly after, in front of Tony and Virginia, Allan questions Poe''s spending habits. Allan causes quite a scene, despite his wife''s attempts to calm him. Poe is asked to leave the Allan family but Virginia offers to come along. Poe''s recently purchased slave comes along as well. Poe has an alcohol-induced hallucination that recreates his poem (and the film''s namesake) "The Raven". As Poe sits alone, he hears a tapping at the chamber door. The door knocker moves on its own and Poe thinks he sees the outline of a large, black bird. As Poe stumbles outside, the word "wine" appearing on a rock he braces himself against, he sees a ghost. As he reaches for another sip of wine, a human skull appears in place of the glass. Finally, a raven makes its way into the room, repeating the word "Nevermore" as Poe attempts to talk to it. Poe, in Fordham, New York, is in "dire poverty" along with Virginia and her mother Maria. Virginia has a terrible coughing fit, a sign of her tuberculosis. Poe, desperate for money, unsuccessfully attempts to sell some of his work to George Rex Graham. Virginia, bothered by the cold winter weather, is kept warm by Poe''s old coat from his time at West Point and from their pet black cat. She dies the next day, causing Poe great grief. Sarah Helen Whitman is introduced at the end of the film, assisting an elderly couple. She and Poe, however, do not cross paths. (It has been suggested that the surviving film is incomplete with portions of the plot from the final reel missing.[2])'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] La Valencia (Suratt), a stage beauty, has ensnared a young man who steals in order to shower her with the luxuries that she demands. He is caught and, after serving a 5-year term, emerges from prison a gray haired man. La Valencia comes across him again, and her passion revives. She seeks to ensnare him again, but now he is married and his old life has no charms for him. Desperate, she then threatens to reveal his past to his wife, which leads to a terrific climax.'
'drama','Mademoiselle Poppea (played by Glaum) is the leading ballerina of the Imperial Ballet in Calcutta, India. Her beauty and charm bring to her many admirers, among them a British soldier, Captain Drake (played by Keenan), and an Indian prince, Yar Khan (played by Mayall), of the Bengalese Dragoons. Although she loves Drake, Poppea agrees to marry the prince because of his title, wealth and high social standing. She keeps Drake as her lover, however, and he visits her regularly at the palace. When the prince is ordered to transfer, he and Poppea go to live in the South. She finds the climate and culture repulsive and is bored and disgusted with her devoted husband. She then writes to Drake and begs him to come see her. Feigning illness, he takes leave from his military duties and travels to Poppea. The prince is pleased to see Drake and receives him warmly. By accident, he discovers the adulterous relationship between Drake and his wife. As revenge, he pours two glasses of wine and puts arsenic into one. He then tells Poppea to select which glass each man will drink. Unknowingly, she selects the poisoned glass for Drake. After the toast, the prince watches as Drake has a horrible death. He disposes of Drake''s body and forces his devastated wife, Poppea, to flee out into the desert.'
'comedy short','The Tramp (Charlie Chaplin) finds the girl of his dreams and works on a family farm. He helps defend the farm against criminals, and all seems well, until he discovers the girl of his dreams already has a boyfriend. Unwilling to be a problem in their lives, he takes to the road, though he is seen skipping and swinging his cane as if happy to be back on the road where he knows he belongs.'
'drama','As the American Civil War begins, Ned Burton leaves his Southern love, Agatha Warren, and joins the Union army. He is later protected and saved from death by Agatha in spite of her loyalty to the South.'
'comedy','Charlie is an assistant to Izzy A. Wake, a painter and paper hanger. The two men are on their way to a job via a cart. The boss rides in the cart, leisurely sitting atop all their paraphernalia, while Charlie is hitched to the cart like a mule. The boss also treats Charlie like a mule, beating him with a stick to get him to move faster. When the boss opts to take a shortcut up a steep hill, the out-of-control cart descends and is nearly hit by an oncoming streetcar. A second attempt to scale the enormous hill is successful. At the house they are to paper, Charlie becomes distracted by the pretty maid. The boss has a misadventure and falls, his head ending up in a bucket of paste. Meanwhile, the short-tempered homeowner is contending with the threat of an exploding stove and an amorous French visitor who is making passes at his wife. Shots are fired—and the target turns out to be Charlie who has been enjoying the maid''s company. An enraged Charlie gives the Frenchman, his boss, and the homeowner each a face full of paste. As the fight moves into the kitchen, the troublesome stove finally explodes. When the dust dies down, Charlie is nowhere to be seen. Slowly the oven door opens. Charlie looks out and retreats back into the stove.'
'action adventure','A strange giant "sea creature" has been rampaging the seas. The American naval ship Abraham Lincoln is sent to investigate, but is rammed by "the creature" which turns out to be The Nautilus, the fantastic submarine of the enigmatic Captain Nemo, and "Rudderless, the ''Abraham Lincoln'' drifts on". Then, in "A strange rescue" he guides the sub to surface under those pitched overboard and his crew take them, including Professor Aronnax, and his daughter (who are French) below through a hatch in the surface of the deck. After they pledge not to escape, Nemo shows them the wonders of the underwater world, and even takes them hunting on the sea floor. Meanwhile, soldiers in a runaway Union Army Balloon are marooned on a mysterious island not far from the submarine. They find a wild girl living alone on the island ("a child of nature"). The yacht of Charles Denver arrives at the island. A former Indian colonial officer, he has been haunted by the ghost of a woman (Princess Daaker) that he attacked years ago; she stabbed herself rather than submit to him. He fled with her young daughter and then abandoned the child on the island. The long-tormented Denver has returned to see what became of her. One of the Union soldiers schemes and kidnaps the wild girl onto Denver''s yacht. Another soldier swims aboard to rescue her. At the same time, Nemo discovers that the yacht belongs to Denver, the enemy he has been seeking all these years. The Nautilus destroys the yacht with a torpedo, but the girl and her rescuer are saved from the water by Captain Nemo. In elaborate flashback scenes to India, Nemo reveals that he is Prince Daaker, and that he created the Nautilus to seek revenge on Charles Denver. He is overjoyed to discover that the abandoned wild girl is his long-lost daughter, but his emotion is such that he expires. His loyal crew bury him at the ocean bottom. They disband and the Nautilus is left to drift to its own watery grave.[6]'
'drama','Dr. Edmund B. Stewart is a talented young physician who is working hard to build both his professional reputation and practice. He is engaged to Emily Thurston whose father is said to be wealthy. The Thurstons move in the best social circles and Emily is congratulated because her fiance is a successful man. Emily loves Edmund, but is unhappy at the amount of time he spends working at his practice. Stewart''s work schedule has caused her to miss many social engagements.[8] Emily grows resentful that his dedication to duty has curtailed so much of her social life; she starts spending time with Benson Heath. Heath, who has no real job, is attracted to Emily because he believes her family is quite wealthy. He has recently lost a considerable amount of money through bad investments. Heath convinces Emily to break her engagement to Edmund Stewart and asks her to marry him. Stewart, who had been driving himself to work harder, is at the point of exhaustion. Emily and Heath''s marriage is the final blow to his constitution; he becomes ill. His doctors advise him to go to the country for recuperation. On the journey, Stewart sees two tramps who appear to be quite happy; he decides to see if this type of life might make him happy also. He takes off his tie, tears off his shirt collar and falls in with the tramps. The tramps later steal Stewart''s money and then he has no recourse but to remain a tramp.[8] Six months after her marriage, Emily''s father dies and it is learned he was not a wealthy man as was assumed. Heath becomes quite angry when he learns that his father in law left no large inheritance. He passes a check on his already overdrawn bank account, uses the money for gambling, and then takes Emily away to avoid being arrested. The couple moves West to a house in a desolate location. The area is deserted enough that two tramps show up and set up camp not for from the home.[8] The tramps find their way into the house, planning to loot it. Their plans are foiled by Heath''s returning home, so they hide in a closet. He is drunk and when Emily tries to take the bottle away from him, he erupts into a rage. Hearing the noise, the tramps wonder what is happening, so they carefully open the closet door a bit to see. Heath is choking Emily and the tramps are horrified at the sight. One of them bolts out of the closet and wrestles with Heath to free Emily from his grasp. As the two men struggle, Heath''s gun discharges and he is fatally shot.[8] The tramps flee, but are apprehended by the sheriff. Stewart, who has been living in the tramp camp, comes up to try helping his friends. When he enters the house he sees Heath lying dead on the floor and Emily also lying there, but in a dead faint. Stewart thinks Emily has shot her husband so he tells the sheriff he is responsible for Heath''s death. When Emily regains consciousness, she tells the sheriff that Stewart was not the man who struggled with her husband. As Stewart is being released by the sheriff, Emily recognizes him and tells him she always loved him; no charges were filed in the death of Heath as the sheriff''s opinion is that Heath got what he deserved.[8]'
'western drama','A hard working miner, Steve Denton (played by Hart), has become rich from years of prospecting. He takes his fortune and leaves to visit his ill mother, Mrs. Denton (played by Claire). In the town of Yellow Ridge, however, he is detained by a seductive dance hall girl named Trixie (played by Glaum). Also known as "the firefly," Trixie not only cheats him out of his gold, but also conceals a message that was wired to him by his dying mother. Learning the next day that his mother is dead, Denton is infuriated about being cheated and betrayed by Trixie, who pretended to be good, and other false friends. In his rage, he kills Trixie''s lover, Chip Emmett (played by Mayall), and kidnaps her. Dragging her by the hair of her head, he takes her into the desert. Enslaving Trixie in his desert hideaway, Denton turns his back on "white civilization." He hates all white men and women and assumes the leadership of a band of Indian and Mexican bandits. Two years later, a wagon-train of Mississippi farmers who are lost and dying in the desert appeal to Denton for help. He refuses to assist them. He is secretly visited that night by Mary Jane Garth (played by Love), an innocent and virtuous young woman among the migrants who bravely confronts the Indians and Mexicans. She pleads their cause and expresses her belief that no white man would refuse to protect a woman in distress. Deeply moved, Denton is redeemed. He guides the wagon-train out of the desert and then resumes his wanderings.'
'drama','The narrative hinges on Jason''s vow to wreak vengeance on his father for abandoning his mother. But his father dies, and Jason turns his desire for revenge against Sunlocks, his father''s son of another wife. Both Sunlocks and Jason are in love with Greeba, daughter of the governor of the Isle of Man. Sunlocks and Jason go to Iceland, and are confined in prison. Jason not knowing Sunlocks, saves his half-brother from death in the mines. Jason not knowing Sunlocks, saves his half-brother from death in the mines. Jason is freed, but Sunlocks is condemned to death. Greeba pleads for Sunlocks'' life, and Jason sacrifices himself by taking Sunlocks'' place and dying for him.[1]'
'drama','The film opens with the outbreak of a war in the previously peaceful kingdom of Wredpryd. Count Ferdinand is the inventor of a new submarine who is assigned to command the new ship in battle. The King of Wredpryd orders the Count to sink the "ProPatria" ("for my country"), a civilian ship that is believed to be carrying munitions as well as civilian passengers. In his mind''s eye, the Count sees a vision of what would happen if he sent a torpedo crashing into the liner, and he recoils. He refuses to follow his orders, saying he is "obeying orders -- from a Higher Power." Realizing his crew will carry out the orders, the Count fights with the crew and blows up his submarine, sending it to the bottom of the sea. The Count''s soul descends into purgatory, where he encounters Jesus. Jesus announces that the Count can find redemption by returning to the living world as a voice for peace. Jesus tells the Count, "Peace to thee, child, for in thy love for humanity is thy redemption. In thy earthly body will I return, and with thy voice plead for peace. Much evil is being wrought in my name." The Count returns to life and is stoned and reviled by his countrymen. He is put on trial by the king, a modern Pontius Pilate, and is sentenced to death. Five thousand women gather at the palace singing a song of peace and pleading with the king to end the war. The mothers'' plea inspires the king to visit the cell of the condemned Count. The Count is found dead in his cell, and Jesus emerges from the Count''s body and takes the king on a tour of the battlefields. Jesus asks, "See here thy handiwork? Under thy reign, thy domain hath become a raging hell!" In the film''s most famous scene, Jesus walks through the battlefields amid the carnage of war. The signing of a peace treaty follows, and the closing scenes depicts the happiness in store for the returning soldiers.'
'drama','A sultan agrees to help an evil witch destroy a mysterious beauty if the witch will bring his young son back to life.'
'drama','Alicia is a poor girl living in the city with her family. When her father receives an inheritance, he is able to follow his dream of becoming an artist and moves his family near an artist''s colony in the country. There he falls prey to a scheming widow, and he and his wife separate. Alicia, meanwhile, has become involved with a young man who is the widow''s accomplice, and she throws over her former suitor, Dr. John Osborne. The young man is a proponent of free love, but he gets a little too free with Alicia and she beans him with a small statuette. She goes running back to her doctor sweetheart, and her parents decide to reconcile, since their separation obviously isn''t doing their children any good.'
'short comedy','The story involves Arbuckle as a farm boy marrying his sweetheart, Normand. They have their honeymoon with Fatty''s dog Luke, at a cottage on the seashore. At high tide that night, Al St. John (Fatty''s rival) and his confederates set the cottage adrift. Fatty and Mabel awaken the next morning to find themselves surrounded by water in their bedroom, and the house afloat.'
'short comedy','A beautiful girl''s father (Bacon) arranges with the local fire chief (Campbell) to have his house burn down so he can collect the insurance money. In exchange for the chief''s complicity in the arson, the father will permit the fire chief to marry his daughter. However, a real fire breaks out elsewhere in the town. The firemen ignore an inhabitant of the burning building as he tries to alert them to the fire, first by activating the fire alarm, then by phoning the fire station, and then by going to the fire station in person. Eventually, a fireman (Chaplin), alerts the fire chief and the company extinguishes the fire. Meanwhile, the father deliberately sets a fire in the basement of his own house without realizing his daughter is still inside the house on the upper floor. Upon knowing his daughter is in mortal danger from the fire, he rushes to find the fire chief to cancel the arrangement not to extinguish his house fire. The fireman (Chaplin), who is also in love with the daughter, abandons the first house fire to rush to the second one. He heroically scales the outside of the building to save her.'
'comedy–drama','Ann (Mae Marsh) is a young girl who has lived in an orphanage since infancy. She is disliked and spurned by the other children, and treated coldly by the orphanage administrators. She is told by the orphanage cook Black Cindy (Madame Sul-Te-Wan) during a palm-reading that she will be cursed until she is married. Ann''s stay at the orphanage is an endless series of unhappy circumstances: she steals a doll belonging to a popular girl named Goldie (Mildred Harris), then accidentally breaks the doll, thereby adding to her loneliness and misery. One day, while the children are napping, a fire breaks out in the orphanage and Ann heroically saves Goldie from the flames. Impressed with Ann''s selflessness, a kindly couple, Samuel and Elinor Knapp (Wilbur Higby and Loyola O''Connor) take her in and later adopt Ann. Ann is immediately smitten with a neighbor boy named Jimmie Vance (Robert Harron) and the two youths begin courting. Believing that her curse is coming to an end, Ann attends a motion picture with Jimmie. Enthralled by the action-filled Western film, the following day Ann imitates the film''s main character Pansy Thorne while playing with a gun. Unbeknownst to Ann, the gun is loaded and a round goes off, entering a neighbor''s house. Ann tentatively peers through the window and is shocked to see her neighbor, Bill Higgins (Charles Lee) lying on the floor. Believing him dead, Ann is despondent, sure that the curse is still upon her and fearful that Jimmie will never marry her now that she has committed murder. After tearfully confessing to her "crime" and a subsequent investigation into the peculiar disappearance of the body of Mr. Higgins, the town is shocked when Mr. Higgins returns home several days later and reveals that he had simply left town to avoid his wife''s incessant nagging. Overjoyed, Jimmie and Ann marry and the "hoodoo" is lifted. But the wedding ceremony is not entirely a happy affair – Ann appears distracted and pensive throughout, leaving the viewer to wonder if she perhaps believes that the curse is still upon her.[1]'
'drama','Upon the death of her parents, little Hulda find herself sole guardian of her three small brothers. Fortunately, she receives a letter from her wealthy Uncle Peter in Pennsylvania inviting the three orphans to come to America and live with him. Shortly afterwards, Uncle Peter drives to the Port of New York to pick them up, but is injured by an automobile accident and taken to a hospital where he lies unidentified. Uncle Peter''s disappearance not only causes distress to the three newly arrived Dutch immigrants, but also to a railroad president (Mr. Walton) who is trying to buy the right-of-way through Uncle Peter''s farmland and has only three deals left in which to close the deal. The search for the old man by both Hulda and Mr. Walton''s son result in a blossoming romance between the two.'
'historical','A British officer (Bosworth) in World War I has a dream of the life of Joan of Arc (Farrar). The officer pulls a sword out of the wall of the trench he is in, the sword used to belong to Joan of Arc. Removing the sword conjures up the ghost of Joan, leading to her telling her story. The setting then changes to France where the story of Joan of Arc is told, of her leading the French troops to victory and her subsequent burning at the stake. The story ends back in the trench with the officer deciding to go on a suicide mission, using Joan''s story and sword as inspiration [5]'
'drama','Hoping to improve his financial lot, petty thief Hawk Chovinski (McGrail) hires a dancing instructor to teach him how to bear himself like a gentleman. His lessons completed, Hawk then poses as a European nobleman, intending to trap a wealthy wife. Yolande Cowles (Baird) sees through Hawk''s pose but falls in love with him anyway.'
'short comedy','Lonesome Luke (Harold Lloyd) tries to sell books to a businessman and his wife.'
'drama','A woman is thrown out of her home by her jealous husband and sinks into depravity. Twenty years later, she finds herself accused of murder for saving her son, who does not know who she is. He finds himself defending her without knowing her background.'
'comedy','Robbers steal the "Koor-Hal Ruby", killing four in the process, and elude the police. Newspaper managing editor Phil Bane sends for conceited crime writer/criminologist George Melville to write stories and boost his circulation. Melville claims the crime was masterminded by Andre Berlea, a man thought to have died four years before. He predicts to reporters that Berlea will next steal the Sunburst Diamond and kill the only witness, a butler, to the ruby theft. Seconds later, they receive news that a butler has been murdered. On his way to see Bane, Melville is about to give a female panhandler some money when he is distracted by a car accident. The woman takes the opportunity to steal his wallet. He follows her to a beauty salon. When she emerges, after a complete makeover, she begs him not to do anything until after 8 o''clock. Over dinner, she explains that she ran away from her cruel husband with another man, from whom she later separated. Her ex-husband is finally letting her see her daughter, who turned four that day, and she needed the money to make herself presentable. They drive to a fancy mansion. Mrs. Northrop faints when she is shown a coffin; Mr. Northrop explains that the child died two days before. However, all is not as it seems. It turns out to be an elaborate practical joke on Melville concocted by the reporters; one of them is writing a play, Fury''s Road, and Claire Peyton ("Mrs. Northrop") is the star. Mr. Northrop was played by the producer, Blackton Gregory. Minutes later, they learn that a famous painting has been stolen from next door. Gregory savors his latest acquisition in secret. When a henchman suggests getting rid of Melville, Gregory turns him down. Having found a worthy foe, he will not do something so crude. He goes to see Melville and hires him to help with the play. He asks why Melville is so sure that Berlea is alive. Melville explains that he believes that Berlea has a compulsion to own beautiful things. Before he "died", he tried to buy three such objects, but was turned down. Now two of them have been stolen. Melville predicts that the third, the Starburst Diamond, will be purloined on Saturday at 11 pm. Bane has faith in him and keeps his staff after hours and notifies the authorities, who set up a stakeout at the bank where the jewel is stored. When the deadline passes without anything happening, Bane fires Melville. Melville agrees to go to Gregory''s retreat for a rest. Gregory''s men have dug a tunnel between the theater where the play, set on the front lines of World War I, will be performed and the bank. At the premiere, when mock explosions and firing are set off in a battle scene, they blast their way into the vault. When Peyton discovers the theft, she fears for Melville''s life. However, Melville has been one step ahead of his nemesis, and later that night captures Gregory/Berlea. Furious at being fooled, she makes her own prediction: "to make him suffer for the rest of his life" ... by marrying him.'
'short comedy','The film opens with a scene of a wealthy young man (Chaplin) arriving at his house in a taxi late at night after a night of heavy drinking. He struggles with the car door when exiting the car and then in paying the taxi driver (Albert Austin). When he gets to his front door, he thinks that he has forgotten the key and has to enter through the window. While climbing in through the window, he steps into a fishbowl that''s placed underneath it and then almost falls down when the carpet underneath him slides. After finding his balance again, he goes through his pockets and realises that the key has been there all the while. He goes back through the window and enters through the front door. Inside the house, the furniture and other inanimate objects become almost insurmountable obstacles for the drunk. He struggles to balance on the sliding carpets and wonders whether he is wearing skates. Falling down, he lands between a tiger rug and a stuffed Eurasian lynx, which terrify him as he thinks they are real. He goes over to the table and tries to pour himself a drink, but first he accidentally spins the table top around and then does not manage to pour the drinks inside a glass. He then unsuccessfully attempts to light a cigarette, and then tries to head up the stairs to his bedroom. He fails several times in climbing them; a large cuckoo clock on the upstairs landing also poses a problem. He becomes increasingly creative with his attempts to climb the stairs, for example by using mountain climbing gear. When he finally reaches his bedroom, he struggles to open his Murphy bed and ends up wrecking it. He gives up on the idea of sleeping in his bed and goes to bathroom. He enters the shower and accidentally turns it on. Soaked, he then gets into the bathtub and falls asleep under a towel.'
'romantic drama','Sets in the 19th century, the plot centered on a man (Harold Lockwood) who is falsely accused of murder. The Other Side of the Door was shot in Monterrey, Mexico.[1]'
'mystery','A prince, the heir apparent to a large empire, was once the lover of Alice Faulkner''s sister. During their love affair, he had written some incriminating letters to her. Alice was given these letters for safe keeping on the deathbed of her sister. Count von Stalburg, the prince''s assistant, and Sir Edward Palmer, a high British official, have been given the task of negotiating the restitution of the letters to the prince prior to his upcoming marriage. However, Alice Faulkner is being held captive by the Larrabees, a husband and wife team of crooks who realize the value of the letters and are trying to get them from Alice in order to blackmail the prince. Failing to secure the letters for themselves, they decide to involve Professor Moriarty in the affair. The film unfolds as a battle of wits ensues between Moriarty and Holmes. Dr. Watson is only marginally involved until the final third. Holmes receives more assistance from an associate named Forman and a young bellboy named Billy.'
'drama','Nadia, the daughter of a nobleman, rejects ancient Greece''s senator Theron''s love; so he has her and her lover, Lucian thrown into a burning crater. As punishment for this sin, the gods decree that he will roam the earth as a lion until he can right his wrong. A few millennia later, Nadia is now Agnes, the daughter of a millionaire, and Lucian is Arthur, a Wall Street broker.'
'drama','Mary Beresford (Boland) is the wife of unambitious law clerk Al Beresford (Beresford). Thanks to Mary''s tenacity and carefully calculated social-climbing, Al is promoted to the position of personal secretary of prominent financier Elihu Knowland (Keenan). Unfortunately, success goes to Al''s head like a narcotic, and soon he has alienated everyone in New York, including Mary, who runs off for parts unknown.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] British nobleman Bertie Cecil (Heyes) takes upon himself the blame for his brother''s forgeries and, when supposed dead, enlists in the French Foreign Legion, serving in Algiers. There he wins the friendship of Emir, a native whose wife he had saved from the lust of his commanding officer. Old friends visit Algiers and recognize Bertie, and urge him to return and claim his own. His refusal leads to a scene where he strikes his commanding officer, and for this he is condemned to death. Cigarette, the "daughter of the regiment," rides to obtain a pardon for Bertie and makes a terrific trip through a sand storm. She arrives too late with the reprieve, but just in time to receive in her own body the bullets intended for Bertie.'
'crime drama','Richard Walton, a district attorney, is presented with an obscenity case: A medical practitioner, Dr. Homer, has been arrested for distributing ''indecent'' birth control literature. On the stand, Dr. Homer makes a strong case for legalizing contraception. He recounts three incidents from his medical practice, each shown in a brief flashback: children are exposed to violent abuse in a family riddled with alcoholism; an impoverished family is unable to provide adequate medical care for their sick children; and a single mother, abandoned by her male lover, commits suicide with her young infant. Meanwhile, Richard''s wife, Edith, has been keeping a secret from him for many years: she has been seeing a doctor, one Herman Malfit, who performs abortions so that her busy social life will not be interrupted by the inconvenience of pregnancy. She suggests it as an option for her friend Mrs. William Carlo, who is with child. Mrs. Carlo has the abortion. The Waltons receive two new guests in their house almost simultaneously: Edith Walton''s ne''er-do-well younger brother, and their maid''s young daughter, Lillian. Smitten by the brother''s advances, the maid''s daughter is seduced and soon finds herself pregnant. She is taken to Dr. Malfit and then abandoned by the boy after the operation goes wrong. Making her way back to the Walton mansion, she collapses and dies from the botched abortion. Following Malfit''s arrest and trial, Richard Walton examines the doctor''s ledgers and realized that his wife and many of her friends are listed as having received ''personal services.'' He returns home, furious, to find them lunching at his home. He banishes his wife''s friends, saying ''I should bring you to trial for manslaughter!'' and confronts Edith with the cry, ''where are my children?'' She is overcome with remorse. As the years pass, the couple must contend with a lonely, childless life, full of longing for the family they might have had.'
'drama','The film is about a court case and embezzlement.'
'comedy','A father takes his daughter on a trip to Bermuda in an attempt to separate her from a suitor. Little does anyone know that the suitor has stowed away on board. When he is discovered, he is credited with catching a crook. The hapless hero receives a reward, and also the girl.'
'crime drama','Small town youth Jimmie Bates (Robert Harron) is a well-intentioned, but troubled youth. Jimmie is a rowdy boy who is always getting into trouble and playing pranks on his friends and neighbors. Although deeply in love with young Mary (Mildred Harris), he eventually spurns Mary''s affection for the more outgoing and worldly young Ruth (Colleen Moore). Eventually, Jimmie''s father Mr. Bates (Richard Henry Cummings), in a fit of exasperation with the boy''s antics, beats him severely and Jimmie runs away from home. While on the lam Jimmie becomes involved with a criminal gang of thieves and Jimmie serves a sentence in jail. After completing his sentence, Jimmie vows to turn over a new leaf. However, the gang of thieves decide they are going to rob Jimmie''s hometown bank. Jimmie tries desperately to foil the attempt during the robbery and is wounded and arrested by the sheriff (William H. Brown) as the robbery suspect. Jimmie escapes from jail and seeks out his true love Mary who hides Jimmie at her home and nurses him back to health. After regaining his strength, Jimmie sets about vindicating himself to his parents and townspeople. Jimmie eventually pursues and captures real perpetrator in his father''s yard. After his capture, the criminal finally admits that Jimmie was not a participant in the robbery attempt and Jimmie is finally redeemed in the eyes of his family.'
'western','As described in a film magazine,[3] Cheyenne Harry (Carey), one of the cowboys on a ranch in Wyoming, falls in love with Helen (Malone), his boss''s daughter. She decides to elope to the city with Captain Thornton (Pegg), a wealthy visitor to the ranch from New York. Cheyenne and Helen''s father (Wells) are downhearted. Cheyenne, devastated by the loss of his fiance, decides to go to the city to rescue her, and finds Thorton giving a dinner party in a hotel about to announce his engagement to Helen. As the dinner progresses Helen discovers the true nature of Thornton and endeavors to escape from him. Cheyenne comes to her rescue and, with the assistance of some cowboys, clean up the place, leaving Cheyenne and Helen reunited.'
'comedy','Arbuckle, a butcher boy in a country store, is in love with Almondine (Alice Lake), the daughter of the store''s general manager Mr. Grouch. Fatty''s attempts to get close to her are sidetracked when the store''s clerk Alum (Al St. John), a rival for Alice''s affections, starts a fight with the rotund butcher. Their confrontation in the store soon involves an earlier customer (Buster Keaton) as well as Grouch. The resulting mayhem includes small bags of flour being hurled and "exploding", pies being tossed, and brooms being wildly swung amid the thick clouds of flour lingering in the air. Determined to marry Almondine, Fatty later disguises himself as a female cousin and follows her to an all-girls boarding school. Unfortunately, Alum has the same idea and masquerades too as a female student. After another fight breaks out between Fatty and Alum, Fatty is taken by the school''s principal Miss Teachem to a separate room to be punished. Meanwhile, Alum and his accomplices (Keaton and Joe Bordeaux) attempt to kidnap Almondine. Luckily, Fatty''s dog Luke distracts the gang while Fatty and Almondine escape. Once outside, the couple see a sign on a tree identifying a nearby parsonage, so they run off arm-in-arm to get married there. Note that the subtitles in a later release of The Butcher Boy cite new names for the characters: Alum is "Slim Snavely" and Almondine is "Amanda".[2]'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] Armand Duval (Roscoe), a son in the proud but poor house of Duval, loves Camille (Bara), a notorious Parisian beauty. His love for Camille means that his sister Celeste (Whitney) cannot marry the man she loves, so the father goes to Camille and begs her to give Armand up, which she does. This arouses the anger of Armand and he denounces her one evening in public. The Count de Varville (Law) challenges Armand to a duel which he wins, wounding Armand in the arm. Believing Camille no longer loves him, Armand does not go to see her. One day his father tells him that Camille is dying. He goes to her and, after a few words, she dies in the arms of her lover.'
'western','As described in a film magazine,[2] Noisy Jim (Corey), a British officer, is anxious to purchase Cactus Peter, the horse belonging to Cheyenne Harry (Carey), but Harry refuses to sell. Harry meets Flora Belle (Astor) one night at the dance hall. Since its pay day, Harry spends all of his money on her, and when he runs out she looks around for someone else who still has money to spend. Angered, Harry goes out, sells Cactus Pete, and returns with more money. When he awakens the next day from his drunken stupor and realizes what he has done, he is consumed with regret and goes to recover his horse. He steels his horse, but is ordered shot for the act. When the fatal hour nears, the British officer relents and Harry is allowed to go free.'
'historical','Because the film has been lost, the following summary is reconstructed from a description in a contemporary film magazine. Cleopatra (Bara), the Siren of Egypt, by a clever ruse reaches Caesar (Leiber) and he falls victim to her charms. They plan to rule the world together, but then Caesar falls. Cleopatra''s life is desired by the church, as the wanton woman''s rule has become intolerable. Pharon (Roscoe), a high priest, is given a sacred dagger to take her life. He gives her his love instead and, when she is in need of some money, leads her to the tomb of his ancestors, where she tears the treasure from the breast of the mummy. With this wealth she goes to Rome to meet Antony (Hall). He leaves the affairs of state and travels to Alexandria with her, where they revel. Antony is recalled to Rome and married to Octavia (Blinn), but his soul cries out for Cleopatra. He sends her a message to arm her ships and meet him at Actium, where they battle the opposing forces. They are overpowered, and flee to Alexandria. There they are captured by Octavius (De Vries), and Antony dies in Cleopatra''s arms. Before Cleopatra is to be dragged behind the wheels of Octavius'' chariot, Pharon the priest, who has never ceased to love her, brings her the serpent that she joyously brings to her breast, dying royally with her crown on her head and scepter in her hand as becomes Egypt.'
'romance','As described in a film magazine,[3] Silas Martin (Marshall), a miser, marries Marcia Manot (Farrar) in order to gain possession of a valuable emerald she owns that once belonged to a Norse queen and is now cursed. After the wedding Marcia learns the true side of her husband and realizes that the marriage was a mistake. Silas steals the stone and places Marcia and Guy Sterling (Reid), his business partner, in a false light in order to get a divorce. Marcia sneaks in one night and discovers that Silas has the stone. She gains possession of it, but Silas attempts to regain it. They struggle, and Marcia kills him in self-defense. Sterling is accused of the murder, but the evidence clears him and the crime remains a mystery. Sterling marries Marcia and has an expert criminologist investigate the murder. He traces the crime to Marcia and, when confronted, she confesses. He gives her one month''s leave of absence, after which she is to turn herself into the law. Marcia returns to her old home and gives the priest the emerald so he can make provision for homeless orphans. She returns and gives herself up to the criminologist. However, finding that her good deed has redeemed her, the criminologist does not turn her over to the law, and she and Sterling are happily reunited.'
'comedy','In a slum called Easy Street, the police are failing to maintain law and order. The Little Tramp is sleeping rough outside a mission near the streets of a lawless slum. He is reformed somewhat at the mission where there is singing and religious education. His religious awakening is inspired by a beautiful young woman who pleads for him to stay at the mission. Spotting a help wanted ad for a job at the police station, the Little Tramp accepts and is assigned the rough-and-tumble Easy Street as his beat. Upon entering the street he finds a bully roughing up the locals and pilfering their money. The Little Tramp gets on the wrong side of the bully and following a chase the two eventually come to blows culminating in the Little Tramp inventively using a gas lamp to render the bully unconscious. The bully is taken away by the police but manages to escape from the station and returns to Easy Street. After a long chase the Little Tramp manages to knock the bully unconscious by dropping a heavy stove on his head from an upstairs window. On returning to his beat on Easy Street the unruly mob knock the Little Tramp unconscious and drop him into a nearby cellar where he manages to save the aforementioned beautiful young woman from a nasty drug addict after accidentally sitting on the drug addict''s needle. Supercharged by the effects of the drug he takes on the mob and heroically defeats them all and as a consequence restores peace and order to Easy Street. By the end of the film, even the bully has become a respectable, churchgoing citizen.'
'sexual hygiene/exploitation film','The exploitation/sexual hygiene film warns against the dangers of premarital sex. Lillian Stevens (played by Zena Keefe) is young woman who ends up having sex with Harold Winthrop (played by James W. Morrison) after both are caught in an unexpected storm during a date. Of course, she gets pregnant. Mom does not realize Lillian has been out all night due to her own gambling addiction. The same young man later starts dating Lillian''s cousin Ruth (played by Rubye De Remer). They get engaged, but Lillian''s pregnancy—and the identity of the father—is revealed when she dies from an illegal abortion, and Ruth breaks off the engagement.[1]'
'western','The setting is the Old West town of Paradise, Nevada, where a young woman, Mercedes Murphy (played by Louise Glaum), co-owns and operates a combination saloon and dance hall called the Red Hen with her business partner, Slick Barney (played by Jack Richardson). Her little half-sister, Olive "Live" Sumner (played by Mildred Harris), who is crippled, lives with her and she makes every effort to protect the child. A tough, but good-hearted businesswoman, Mercedes shows a tender side at home with Live. Her partner, Slick, and a cowboy called the Heller (played by John Gilbert), who has a heart of gold, are both interested in Live. A reform movement comes to Paradise with the arrival of Reverend Gavin McGregor (played by William Conklin), who wants to clean up the town and sets up a church next to the saloon and dance hall. Initially, Mercedes is opposed to the church and there is immediate antagonism between her and the reverend. He and Mercedes come to respect each other, however, and she is so impressed by his sermons that she closes down her business. When her little sister is sexually abused, Mercedes blames the reverend and is filled with wrath. She begins a vigorous attack on the church and goes gunning for him. But the Heller discovers that it was actually Mercedes'' partner, Slick, who compromised Live''s virtue and shoots him dead. After Mercedes learns that it was Slick and not the reverend who betrayed Live, she and the reverend become friends. She closes down the saloon and dance hall permanently and prepares to leave town with Live. The reverend then professes his love for her and begs her to stay.'
'drama','A young boy, Pip, runs into an escaped convict at his local churchyard. Pip does favours for Magwitch (the convict), such as bringing him food etc. until Magwitch is eventually arrested and deported to Australia.'
'comedy drama','As described in a film magazine,[5] little Marie Farrell (Axzelle), through the carelessness of her nurse, is lost and believed drowned. She has wandered upon the ship of the smuggler Captain Flagg (Brandt), who finds her and brings her up as his own. Her parents adopt a boy to help them forget their grief. The girl grows up with no memory of her former life. The adopted boy moves in the smart set in Mayport, and his parents try to make a match between him and a society girl. Marie (Darmond) is brought to her adopted father''s sister, as the old captain believes she should have the care of a loving woman. She meets young Richard Farrell (Welch) and the two come to love each other. The Farrells do everything they can to break up the couple, but with the help of the captain a marriage is accomplished. There is a stormy meeting between the bridal pair and the parents, during which the captain sees a portrait of Marie as a baby and, realizing the truth, tells the story of her life. The family is reunited and Mary and Richard spend their honeymoon on the captain''s ship.'
'drama','Polly Biggs (Peggy Hyland) is the eldest of a family of orphaned children who are taken in by their uncle, Mayor Hoadley (John S. Robertson). Hoadley despises the children and has only taken them in as good publicity for the upcoming election. His wife, Mrs. Hoadley (Julia Swayne Gordon) is equally cruel to the children, especially Polly.[3] One day, Polly Biggs takes the children fishing and meets a young man named John Oxmore (Antonio Moreno), who is the son of the opposing mayoral candidate. When she returns home, Polly discovers that her uncle intends to send all the children to the poorhouse as soon as the election is over. Polly plans to take revenge on her uncle and immediately takes the children to the poorhouse herself, rather than let her uncle do so. Mayor Hoadley, frightened that voters may be incensed to learn that his nieces and nephews are living as orphans in a squalid poorhouse, goes to retrieve them. When Polly sees his car arriving at the poorhouse, she and the children flee. They find an unoccupied cabin in the woods where the brood of youngsters settle in. Unbeknownst to Polly, the cabin is owned by John Oxmore, the young man she met earlier. After Oxmore finds them at his cabin, he grants Polly permission to keep the children there. However, the next day he is accused of a murder committed by Mayor Hoadley. Although John was at the cabin at the time the murder was committed but he says nothing, in hopes of sparing Polly and the children. After John is arrested and Polly discovers his fate, she rushes to the courthouse and announces that John couldn''t have committed the crime because he was with her and the children when it occurred. John is released and the cruel Mayor Hoadley is arrested and convicted of the crime.'
'comedy','Arbuckle plays a drug store clerk, soda jerk, and gas station attendant, who can be both lazy and dishonest. After he mixes a soda for one customer with elaborate gestures and juggling of utensils, he attends the perfume counter, where another customer has been indulging herself with a free sample. After he confronts her, he is distracted while an African American customer steps up to the counter. When the clerk hugs her and then realizes it is a different customer, he almost faints. Later on, while still on the job, he proposes to his boss''s daughter Alice (Alice Mann), and she gleefully accepts. The scene then switches to the gas pump, where Arbuckle''s character switches the sign to a higher price when a person with an expensive car drives up. After the car drives away, he drinks from the pump. Meanwhile inside, Al (Al St. John), another admirer of Alice, also proposes to her while they are eating watermelon. When she is tells him she is already engaged to the soda clerk, Al becomes outraged and begins causing a commotion in the store. After a food fight that involves several customers, the owner of the store throws Al out. Later in the day a delivery boy (Buster Keaton), after a prat fall over a bicycle rack, delivers Alice''s wedding dress to her room above the store. He agrees to model it for her when she expresses worry that it will not fit her. When a male customer enters and annoys the clerk, he puts chloroform in the sample bottle to knock him out if he comes in again. The male customer never returns, but several female customers end up knocking themselves out. When a pretty woman arrives, Fatty deliberately knocks her unconscious so he can kiss her. He knocks out his boss, who could be a witness, as well. After he sees another customer sampling the perfume, he is shocked when it has no effect on her, even when she drinks it. He investigates by spraying himself with the "perfume" but is himself knocked out. With Arbuckle''s character unconscious, Al, the rejected lover, sneaks into the store with his gang and kidnaps the delivery boy, thinking it is Alice, since his face was covered by a wedding veil. They tie him up and put a sack over his head and, escaping out of the second story window, take the delivery boy by to the justice of the peace''s office. There they attempt to force the justice of peace to marry them at gunpoint. However, the soda clerk regains consciousness and, thinking the group has actually kidnapped Alice, pursues the group, but only after he comically struggles with a mule that he wants to hook to a wagon. He thwarts the gang just in time. He then convinces the justice of the peace to marry him to the delivery boy, whom, since his head is still covered in the sack, he thinks is Alice. Alice, discovering what has happened, gets on a bicycle and heads to the justice of the peace''s office as well. She arrives in time to stop the clerk from marrying the delivery boy. Arbuckle''s character then throws Keaton''s character into the room with Al and his henchmen. While that scene of slapstick fighting goes on in that room, the soda clerk and Alice must have been married, for in the final scene the clerk pays the justice of the peace but then sprays him with the chloroform in the perfume bottle and takes his money back. The film ends long before the newly wed couple reach their wedding night, as the title might have suggested would be forthcoming.'
'comedy','The film begins aboard a steamer crossing the Atlantic Ocean, and initially showcases the misadventures of an unnamed immigrant, the Tramp (Chaplin) who finds himself in assorted mischief while, among other things, playing cards, eating in a mess hall, and avoiding seasick passengers. Along the way, he befriends another unnamed immigrant (Purviance) who is traveling to America with her ailing mother. The two are robbed by a pickpocket who is losing in gambling. The Tramp, feeling sorry for the two penniless women, attempts to secretly place his winnings from his card game in the woman''s pocket, but ends up being mistakenly accused of being a pickpocket. The woman manages to clear the Tramp''s name. Upon arrival in America, the Tramp and the woman part company. Later, hungry and broke, the tramp finds a coin on the street outside a restaurant and pockets it. He doesn''t realize there is a hole in his pocket and the coin has fallen straight through and is back on the ground. He enters the restaurant, where he orders a plate of beans. There, he is reunited with the woman and discovers her mother is dead. The Tramp orders a meal for her. As they eat, they watch the restaurant''s burly head waiter (Campbell) and other waiters attack and forcibly eject a patron who is short 10 cents in paying his bill. The Tramp, intimidated by the waiter, checks and now realizes he has lost his coin. Terrified of facing the same treatment as the man he saw thrown out, the Tramp begins planning how he will fight the huge man. Soon, however, he finds the same coin fallen from the head waiter''s pocket onto the floor and makes many failed attempts to retrieve it without notice. He finally retrieves the coin and nonchalantly pays the waiter only to be thunderstruck when the waiter reveals the coin to be fake. Once again, the Tramp prepares for the fight of his life. Just then, a visiting artist spots the Tramp and the woman and offers them a job to pose for a painting. The two agree. The artist offers to pay for the Tramp and the woman''s meal, but the Tramp declines the offer several times for reasons of etiquette, intending to eventually accept the artist''s offer; however, he''s dismayed when the artist does not renew his offer to pay at the last moment. The artist pays for his own meal and leaves a tip for the waiter. The Tramp notices that the tip is enough to cover the couple''s meal and, without the artist noticing, palms the tip and presents it to the waiter as his own payment for his and the woman''s meal. As a final riposte, he lets the waiter keep the remaining change - one small coin - after paying his bill. The waiter thinks the artist himself has given no tip whatsoever, and is clearly upset at this supposed action. Afterwards, outside a marriage license office in the rain, the Tramp proposes marriage to the woman, who is coy and reluctant until the Tramp physically carries her into the office while she waves her arms and kicks her feet in protest.'
'comedy','A young man drowns his sorrows in strong drink when jilted by his girl. His drunkenness gets him thrown in jail, where he falls in love with the jailer''s daughter. When released, the young man tries everything to get back into the jail - though when he is mistaken for an anarchist bomber, he finds himself facing not just jail, but execution.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Henri Labordie (Tavernier) is the father of twins. Jeanne (Taliaferro) is sweet and winsome while her brother Jaques (Taliaferro), pampered by her father, is ill-tempered. When Jaques dies through his own caddishness, Jeanne, to spare her father from the shock, clips off her hair and dons boys clothing so that her father will think that it was her and not Jaques who drowned in a stream. When Labordie dies, Jeanne''s deception ends when she goes to Montreal to fulfill an ancient pact, and there she finds happiness.'
'war drama','Karl Von Austreim (Jack Holt) lives in America with his German father and American mother. He notices a young lady, Angela More (Mary Pickford). As she is celebrating her birthday on the Fourth of July of 1914, she receives flowers from the French Count Jules De Destin (Raymond Hatton). They are interrupted by Karl, who also gives her a present. They soon battle for Angela''s attention. To lose his competition, Count Jules arranges for Karl to be sent to Hamburg, where he will have to join his regiment. Angela is crushed when he announces he has to leave. The next day, Angela reads in the paper the Germans and French are at war and 10,000 Germans have been killed already. Three months pass by without a word from Karl. Karl is wounded in the fighting. Word spreads that Germany will sink any ship which is thought to be carrying munitions to the Allies. Angela is aboard one of those ships when it is hit. Angela saves herself by climbing on a floating table and begging the attackers not to fire on the passengers. Angela is eventually rescued. After weeks of ceaseless hammering from the German guns, the French fall back on Vangy. Angela arrives in Vangy as well to visit her aunt, only to discover she has died. The Old Prussians are bombing the city and Angela is requested to flee. However, she is determined to stay to nurse the wounded soldiers. Meanwhile, the Germans enter the chateau with the intention of getting drunk and enjoying themselves with the young women. A French soldier tries to help Angela escape, but she is unwilling to. He next asks her to let a French soldier spy on the Germans and inform the French via a secret hidden telephone. Angela is afraid, but gives them permission. The Germans are intent on raping Angela, who is the only person in the mansion not to be hidden. She reveals herself to be an American to save herself, but they do not believe her. Angela attempts to run away and hide, but is discovered by a German soldier who turns out to be Karl. Angela orders him to save the other women in the house, but Karl responds he cannot give orders to his fellow Germans. She realizes there is nothing she can do. With permission to leave the mansion, she witnesses the execution of the French soldiers. She is heartbroken and decides to go back in for revenge. Angela secretly calls the French with the hidden telephone and informs them that there are three gun holders near the chateau. The French prepare themselves and attack the Germans. The Germans realize someone is giving the French information and Karl catches Angela. He tries to help her escape, but they are caught. The commander orders that Angela be shot. When Karl tries to save her, he is to sentenced to be executed as well for treason. As the couple face death, the French bomb the mansion, enabling Angela and Karl to escape. They are too weak to run and collapse near a statue of Jesus. The next day, they are found by French soldiers. They initially want to shoot Karl, but Angela begs them to set him free. They eventually allow her to fly back to America with Karl by her side as a German prisoner.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] Sara Crewe (Pickford) is treated as a little princess at the Minchin boarding school for children until it is learned that her father has lost his entire fortune, and she is made a slavey (a household servant). She and Becky (Pitts), another slavey, become close friends who share their joys and sorrows. Christmastime draws near and the girls watch the preparations wistfully. Their loneliness arouses the sympathy of a servant of the rich Mr. Carrisford. On the night before Christmas he prepares a spread for the slaveys in their attic. He calls his master Mr. Carrisford (von Seyffertitz) to watch their joy, but both are witness to the slaveys being abused and whipped by Miss Minchin (Griffith). Carrisford interferes and learns that Sara is the daughter of his best friend. He adopts Sara and Becky and in their new home they have a real Christmas. The film opens with Sarah''s father moving back to London after serving in the British Army in India. She is opposed to leaving the luxurious life of an officer''s child with a large house and many servants, and is initially shy when enrolled in Miss Minchin''s School. Her reputation as "the little princess" precedes her and the other girls are fascinated with her tales of life in India. The girls sneak into Sarah''s room at night to listen to her stories. One night, she tells "Ali Baba and the Forty Thieves" which becomes a story within a story with elaborate exotic sets and costumes.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[5] Barbara Norton (La Badie) and her brother Tom (Marlo), orphaned children of a veteran who gave his life for his country, go to live with their uncle Phineas (Howard) and aunt (Hastings) in the city. It is just before the entrance of the United States into the European war and the uncle is a pacifist. He holds meetings at home where Barbara assists him. Barbara''s brother is a loyal American and is greatly troubled by the uncle''s expectations to count on him. Barbara meets John Alton (Herbert), who wins her promise to be his wife. They are very happy until war is declared and Barbara cannot bear the thought of her future husband not doing service for his country. His "Peace at Any Price" button is the last straw and she gives him a choice of either joining the "colors" or breaking the engagement. John declares that he is a true pacifist and Barbara, believing that a man who cannot support his country is that country''s enemy, breaks the engagement publicly. Her fiance becomes very unpopular at his club because of his views and is taken to task by one of his father''s friends. Having lost Barbara and his popularity makes him resent the constant references to the United States and his debt to his country, and he curses his native land. Barbara enlists as a Red Cross nurse and her brother as a soldier. Later, an old friend of John''s family, Pop Milton (Dundan), gives him a copy of The Man Without a Country and asks him to read it and rise above his treasonous views. He does so, and as he reads the immortal story the patriotic spirit of Barbara comes to him in a vision of Columbia who tells him that in a previous life he was the Philip Nolan of the story. She takes him back to historic times and shows him a succession of scenes from the book. The man of today sees with horror the famous court martial in which he was sentenced to never hear of the United States again, the tragedy of the careful carrying out of the sentence, and the pitiful death of the man, made easier by the humanity of Captain Danforth (Gilmour), who gives him a brief history of the land he learns to bless before he dies. John''s spirit returns from the allegorical journey and he responds to the new and vigorous manhood within and enlists at once, thereby winning Barbara, who was at home on sick leave from her nursing work in France.'
'comedy drama','Captain Ward is an old man living in a ship with his granddaughter Sally. Sally''s mother died when Sally was born and never revealed the identity of her father. That is why Ward is overprotective of Sally, and he prays each day for the chance to slay the man who ruined his daughter and left a grandchild without a name. One day, Sally finds a three legged dog and sneaks him into the ship. He runs away, however, and Sally follows him to the mansion of Judge Gordon. There she meets Hugh Schuyler, the young friend of the judge. They fall in love, but Ward chases him away. The judge is struck by how much Sally looks like the woman to whom he was once married. When the judge visits the captain, he tells him he doubts he is Sally''s father. Ward becomes angry and tries to kill him, and Sally, interfering, is struck by a blow and knocked unconscious. When she awakes, Sally finds out that Judge Gordon is actually her father, having been secretly married to her mother. She accepts a marriage proposal from Hugh and elopes with him as they happily sail away along with the captain and judge.[2][3]'
'adventure','The film opens with a sequence in which D''Artagnan (Douglas Fairbanks) rides up to a tavern on horseback and ends up brawling with sword and fist with the patrons inside in his haste to approach a fair young stranger. After triumphing, he morphs into modern day Ned Thacker (also played by Fairbanks). Ned is born and raised in Kansas by a mother who passes along to him her love of D''Artagnan and The Three Musketeers, despite his father''s concern that it is not good for him. In fact, Ned does get into trouble with his (sometimes unwanted) chivalrous attempts to help women. Finally, Ned can stand it no more; he decides to leave dull Kansas. In mirroring scenes, D''Artagnan is astride a somewhat less-than-noble steed, a present from his father for his departure from home, while Ned''s father gives him the modern equivalent: a car. While driving in the desert, he comes upon a chauffeur-driven automobile stopped because the road ahead has been washed away. Unimpressed with one passenger, the middle-aged Forrest Vandeteer (the "richest man in Yonkers"), Ned is quite taken with the lovely "Park Avenue flapper" Elsie Dodge. Her mother, the third passenger, sees her only daughter''s marriage to Vandeteer as the solution to their dire financial straits. Vandeteer buys what he wants, and he wants Elsie. She, however, loathes her suitor; she much prefers young Ned. Ned comes up with the idea to put his car on railroad tracks. He takes the party (with Elsie in the front seat beside him) to their Grand Canyon resort hotel. There, Vandeteer tells Ned to stay away from the ladies. John Blabb, who works for "Town Topics", informs Ned that Vandeteer already has three wives hidden away somewhere. Meanwhile, Chin-de-dah, the Native American leader of an outlaw gang hiding in a tributary canyon, is bored. He decides to kidnap a white woman to be his wife (his last "wife" is shown to have committed suicide). He goes to the resort, pretending to be a guide, and selects Elsie as his target. Ned is suspicious, but Vandeteer hires him. Vandeteer and Elsie set out for a horse ride down the canyon with their guide. Ned uses the time to persuade Mrs. Dodge that her daughter''s happiness should take priority over their financial security. James Brown, a member of the gang who knows and hates Vandeteer, gleefully tells Ned about the man''s impending demise and Chin-de-dah''s intentions toward Elsie. Ned shames him into helping with a rescue. They reach the camp in time to free Elsie and Vandeteer, but remain in peril. Vandeteer offers Ned $100,000 to save his life; Ned makes him put it in writing. Then they are lifted up the sheer cliff by a rope pulled by a horse. Once they are safe, Brown wants to kill Vandeteer, who falsely incriminated him in Vandeteer''s own scam and stole his wife and children. Vandeteer ends up clinging to the cliffside, kept from falling to his death only by Ned''s grip. Under Ned''s direction, he writes a note exonerating Brown. Ned persuades Brown to let Vandeteer live, and promises to split the reward with him. Once they are alone, Elsie kisses her rescuer.'
'comedy','As described in Exhibitors Herald, a film magazine,[3] Dr. Fatty Holepoke (Arbuckle) bets all of his money on a horse and loses it. He becomes entangled in the meshes of a vampire (Mann), but when he hears the voice of "his master" (his wife), he finds himself in a serious predicament. With the assistance of a uniform stolen from a policeman, he manages to get away. He tries his luck again with the horses and wins lots of money. However, when he walks down the street his wife relieves him of all of it and leads him home, even though she is half his size.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine review,[3] Neil Dacey (Carrigan) loves Peggy Desmond (Taliaferro). Terence O''Malley (Sack), nephew of Squire O''Malley (Ryan), is anxious to win Peggy. Terence and his uncle have a quarrel because Terence cannot win Peggy, and the squire is killed. Terence does the killing with Neil''s gun, so Neil is held for the murder. Peggy, to save her fiance, dresses as the will-o''-the-wisp, and this results in a confession by Terence.'
'drama','Gwendolyn is an 11-year-old girl who is left by her rich and busy parents to the care of unsympathetic domestic workers at the family''s mansion. Her mother is only interested in her social life and her father has serious financial problems and is even contemplating suicide. When she manages to have some good time with an organ-grinder or a plumber, or have a mud-fight with street boys, she is rapidly brought back on the right track. One day she becomes sick because the maid has given her an extra dose of sleeping medicine to be able to go out. She then becomes delirious and starts seeing an imaginary world inspired by people and things around her; the Garden of Lonely Children in the Tell-Tale forest. Her conditions worsens and Death tries to lure her to eternal rest. But Life also appears to her and finally wins.[6]'
'adventure','As described in a film magazine,[3] Alexis Caesar Napoleon Brown (Fairbanks) learns that his mother was a great princess from the European province of Vulgaria but became an outcast because she did not marry royal blood. Alexis believes that if one concentrates on one thing long enough, it will come true. He is continuously concentrating on the idea some day he will be king of Vulgaria. He tells his ambitions to the girl of his dreams (Percy), who is the "patient listener." After one of his conferences with his patient sweetheart he goes home and dreams he is king of Vulgaria. On all sides his life is threatened by Black Boris (Campeau), who aspires to the throne. Arrangements are made for him to marry the Princess Valentina, but after one glance at her he is ready to run away. However, he is persuaded to remain and it becomes necessary for him to fight a duel with his rival Boris. Alexis, not knowing how to use a sword, puts up a poor fight and after a short struggle is sent flying down a steep precipice. It becomes steeper and steeper until Alexis awakens, having fallen out of bed. He is cured of his desires and is happy in his little home in New Jersey with his "patient listener" as Mrs. Alexis Caesar Napoleon Brown and a two-year old to pass his time with.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Rebecca Randall (Pickford) is taken into the home of her aunt Hannah (Eddy), a strict New England woman. Rebecca meets Adam Ladd (O''Brien), a young man of the village, and they become great friends. One day Rebecca promises to marry Adam when she becomes of age. Unable to withstand her pranks any longer, her aunt sends her away to a boarding school. She graduates a beautiful young lady. Shortly thereafter, Adam demands a fulfillment of her promise.'
'comedy','A philandering husband''s public flirtation with a beautiful girl—and the resulting brawl with the woman''s boyfriend—are captured by a newsreel cameraman. When the husband takes his wife and her mother out to the movies, the footage is shown on-screen. The husband tries to flee the theater, only to be spotted and leaped upon by the woman''s boyfriend, treating viewers to two simultaneous fights between the same two men, both on-screen and in the aisle.'
'comedy','Early morning in the Rough family household and Mr Rough (Arbuckle) falls asleep while smoking and wakes up several minutes later to find his bed on fire. Still in an early morning daze, Rough calmly walks out of his bedroom, through the dining room and into the kitchen, seeing that the only item big enough to carry water is a cup he makes several trips to the bedroom armed with only a cup of water each time to extinguish the fire. Eventually Mrs Rough and her mother discover the fire and call for the delivery boy (Keaton) to fetch the hose and Rough eventually succeeds in putting out the fire after initially squirting everything but the fire. Later, while trying to flirt with Mrs Rough a fight breaks out between the delivery boy and the house cook and they chase each other through the house. Rough eventually throws both of the men out of the house and they are arrested by a passing policeman. Rough''s mother in law insists that Rough clean the house before their dinner guests for the evening arrive. Meanwhile at the police station the delivery boy and the cook agree to join the police force in order to avoid being sent to prison. Back at the house Rough makes a complete mess of the dinner, embarrassing his wife and mother in law in the process, culminating in him setting fire to the dinner table after pouring gasoline onto the steak instead of rum. During the chaos, two of the dinner guests sneak away and steal one of Mrs Rough''s necklaces, luckily a passing policeman sees the theft, telephones the station for backup and the chief of police sends his two latest recruits: the delivery boy and the cook to deal with the situation. At the house the policeman attempts to arrest the thieves but they make a break for it and hide in the cellar. After their journey to the house is delayed when the delivery boy gets stuck on a fence, the new police recruits eventually arrive at the house just in time to unintentionally stop the fleeing thieves by bumping into them. Mr Rough takes back the necklace and the thieves are taken to jail.'
'spy','As described in a film magazine review,[3] Sebastian Dore (Dearholt) is mysteriously murdered in front of his home, and his beautiful wife Liane (Kane) vows revenge on the murderer. To this end she becomes a German spy for Karl, Prince von Kondermarck (MacLean), but the two fall in love. At the outbreak of war Karl is called to Germany, and Liane opens her home to wounded French soldiers. She accidentally learns that Karl is the murderer of her husband and plans to turn him over to the police. Before he leaves, Karl produces letters showing that Sebastian had betrayed his sister, and explains that Sebastian was accidentally shot in a struggle. Liane and Karl escape together on his yacht.'
'western','At the end of the 19th century in the Far West, a farmer is fighting for his right to plough the plains. In order to expel the farmers, the ranchers try to control access to water.[2]'
'drama','Lola Montrose (played by Glaum) is a kept woman. The man she lives with while facing the scorn of society, famous surgeon Dr. John Hampton (played by Sherry), supports her in lavish style. She wishes he will marry her. Having tired of his mistress, however, Hampton tells her that he plans to marry a "good woman," Paula Chester (played by Matthews), who was originally intended for his son, Irwin (played by Chase). He is sure she will exert proper influence over Irwin. Lola begs Hampton, whom she loves, to marry her instead. She tells him of her son, David (played by Giraci), who she sent away to school. But Hampton insists that he must not spoil his son''s future. In revenge, Lola decides to marry Irwin. Getting the young man intoxicated, she gets him to propose and they go to the minister. Because Irwin is drunk, however, the clergyman refuses to perform the marriage ceremony. As he was so drunk, Irwin does not realize that there was no actual wedding. He brings Lola home and introduces her to his father as his wife. Hampton, naturally, denounces her. Lola then receives a call that her son, David, has been badly injured by a fall at school. His new wife, Paula, goes to Hampton and convinces him to operate on David, which saves the boys life. In gratitude, Lola relents. Admitting that the marriage was a hoax, she lets go of Irwin. Seeing his error, Hampton agrees to take care of her and her son.'
'romance','As described in a film magazine,[2] Moctezuma (Hatton), the Aztec king, resents the intrusion of the Spanish who have come to convert the Aztecs to Christianity. As Tecza (Farrar), daughter of the king, loves Alvarado (Reid), one of the Spanish captains, she allows the Spanish soldiers to enter the palace. After a terrific battle, she is the only surviving Aztec and the Spanish allow her to depart in peace. Alvarado then comes wooing the last of the Aztecs and wins her.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[3] Susan Sweeney (Marsh), employed in a doll factory, learns that she has inherited a hotel in a small town in the Adirondacks. Picturing the hotel as resembling the most palatial building she has ever seen, she and two girl friends set out for the new home. Consternation reigns supreme when the young women are taken to a ramshackle building, one-half vacant and the other half decorated with persons in various stages of inebriation. The sight of two motherless children prompts Sue to remain and before long she has transferred the place into a fairly decent hotel. She is able to put the bar out of business, reforms the village drunkard, plays Cupid, and wins the love of Austin Strong (Austin).'
'drama','Set in San Francisco during the early 1900s, the film revolves around Amarilly (Mary Pickford), the daughter of a widowed scrubwoman. Amarilly is proud of her hard-working Irish family, and takes care of her five roughhouse brothers. She is engaged to bartender Terry McGowan (William Scott), who gets her a job as a cigarette girl in his cafe after a fire unfairly causes her to lose her job as a theater scrubwoman. While working as a cigarette girl, she meets Gordon Phillips (Norman Kerry), a handsome and wealthy but frivolous young man, who is a society sculptor. Terry becomes jealous when Amarilly starts hanging out with Gordon, and he breaks off the engagement. Gordon offers Amarilly a job with his wealthy and snobbish aunt, Mrs. Phillips (Ida Waterman). When the neighborhood is quarantined after a breakout of scarlet fever, Mrs. Phillips decides to take the time to teach Amarilly high class manners in a Pygmalion-like experiment. However, once she discovers her nephew has fallen in love with Amarilly, she turns against her. Mrs. Phillips tries to humiliate Amarilly by inviting her family over for a social party. Amarilly is outraged and returns to her old home. She sees Terry and invites him for supper. He is delighted, and on the way to her house, he stops to buy expensive 50 cent violets, even though he had earlier passed up violets at 15 cents. He is shot by accident, and barely makes it to Amarilly''s house before collapsing. Fortunately, Terry survives. Amarilly visits him in the hospital and tells him that when he gets out, they have a date at City Hall. The final scene is five years later. Amarilly is in a side car on Terry''s motor bike; they both are nicely dressed and seem to be doing well. Then it is revealed under the blanket she has a baby, and behind Terry is a little boy.'
'comedy','Con artists Harold (Harold Lloyd) and Snub (Snub Pollard) try to con the "not easily outwitted" Miss Goulash (Bebe Daniels) and her father.'
'drama','Denton (Fairbanks) is a lieutenant in the U.S. Cavalry regiment commaded by Colonel Benham (Frederick Burton). Benham is married to the much younger Estrella (Kathleen Kirkham), the daughter of wealthy rancher Canby (Theodore Roberts). Estrella has a sister, Bonita (Marjorie Daw), with whom Denton falls in love. Denton discovers an affair between Estrella and Captain Hodgeman (Harry Northrup). In his effort to break up the affair, Denton follows Estrella to her room where Benham catches them and misunderstands what he sees. Denton honorably keeps Estrella''s secret and in consequence must resign in disgrace. Canby hires Denton as foreman of his ranch. Denton''s relationship with Bonita is endangered by Hodgeman who lies to Canby about him. Hodgeman''s grudge against Denton leads to a fight between the two during which Hodgeman is shot and mortally wounded. Denton is suspected, but a cowboy, Tony (Raymond Hatton), declares that he fired the shot to retaliate for Hodgeman''s dealings with the girl that he loves. In the end, Estrella reveals the truth about her own indiscretion, enabling Denton and Bonita to marry with her family''s blessing as well as a happy ending for Benham and Estrella.'
'crime drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] Roberta Lee (Minter), interested in uplift work, induces her father Thomas Lee (Periolat) to take on Bill Dorgan (Humphrey), a convict, as a gardener. Bill steals Roberta''s jewelry the night she leaves on a vacation on a ranch, and he hides in the country not far from the ranch. Roberta meets Richard Van Stone (Forrest) and they become mutually attracted. Richard gives Roberta a brooch that he had bought from Bill. When Roberta recognizes it as being hers and believes Richard guilty of the theft, she turns him over to the sheriff. Bill is later captured and Richard is released. Roberta learns that Richard is her father''s new general manager, and she goes to tell him that she and Richard are engaged.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[5] George MacFarland (Reid) makes a bet with two of his friends that, having committed a forgery, he will be able to elude the officers of the law for one year. As his friends are very thorough, he does not find it an easy matter getting around town. He finally goes to a small town in the west where he lives unmolested for eleven months. On a hunting expedition he meets Dolly Kamman (Little), daughter of Sheriff Kamman (Beery), who takes George to meet her father. As Dolly has fallen in love with George''s photograph, he is a somewhat privileged prisoner. On the day the bet is off George hears that his friends have drowned and he is sure he is to be sent to Sing Sing. The arrival of the boys, however, changes things, and in addition to being set free George wins Dolly.'
'comedy short','Fatty and Buster play a pair of incompetent bellhops who are constantly careless with guest''s luggage and slack on the job. One morning a new customer named Rasputin the Mystic arrives at the hotel asking for a shave and Fatty being a skilled barber is happy to oblige. He first cuts his hair and facial hair in a way which first makes him resemble Ulysses S Grant, Abraham Lincoln and finally King Wilhelm (America had entered World War I only months earlier). His attention is soon turned, as is Buster''s, to an attractive new hotel manicurist Cutie Cuticle, and begin to bicker and fight over her. While Fatty finishes dealing with Rasputin, Buster gets stuck in the hotel elevator and while attempting to free him Fatty accidentally propels Cutie into the air and onto a moose head mounted on the wall. Fatty and Buster both rescue her but Fatty takes all the credit and scores himself a date with Cutie. In order to make himself look even more heroic, Fatty arranges for Buster and the hotel clerk to pretend to rob the town bank so that Fatty can show up on the scene and apprehend them in front of Cutie. However when Buster and the clerk arrive at the bank they discover that it is already being robbed. The robbers brawl with Fatty, Buster and the clerk and in the ensuing chaos the thieves get away, hijacking a horse and carriage and riding out of town. Fatty gives chase on a motorcycle and the thieves become unhooked from the horse whilst in the middle of an uphill climb and come speeding back down the hill before crashing into the hotel lobby. The thieves are arrested and Fatty is given a reward for apprehending them and receives a kiss from Cutie.'
'fantasy','When poor old widow Berlingot asks Tyltyl and Mytyl, the young son and daughter of her more prosperous neighbors, for the loan of their pet bird to cheer up her ill daughter, Mytyl selfishly refuses. That night, when the children are asleep, the fairy Bérylune enters their home in the semblance of Berlingot, before transforming into her true beautiful appearance. She insists that the children search for the bluebird of happiness. She gives Tyltyl a magical hat which has the power to show him the insides of things. As a result, the souls of fire, water, light, bread, sugar and milk becoming personified, and their pet dog and cat can now speak with their masters. Before they all set out, Bérylune warns the children that their new companions will all perish once their quest is achieved. The fairy then takes them to various places to search. At the Palace of Night, the traitorous cat forewarns the Mother of Night, having heard the fairy''s prediction. The dog saves Tyltyl from one of the dangers of the palace. In a graveyard, the dead come alive at midnight, and Tyltyl and Mytyl are reunited with their grandmother, grandfather and siblings. They receive a blue bird, but when they leave, it disappears. Next, they visit the Palace of Happiness. After seeing various lesser joys and happinesses, they are shown the greatest of them all: maternal love in the form of their own mother. Finally, they are transported to the Kingdom of the Future, where children wait to be born, including their brother. Nowhere do they find the bluebird. Returning home empty-handed, the children see that the bird has been in a cage in their home the whole time. Mytyl gives the bird to Berlingot. She returns shortly afterward with her daughter, now well. However, the bird escapes from the daughter''s grasp and flies away. Tyltyl comforts the upset neighbor girl, then turns to the audience and asks the viewers to search for the bluebird where they are most likely to find it: in their own homes.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] believing he loves her, Elaine Bronson (Murray) at the death of her uncle marries Richard Earle (Cody). Before long, she discovers that he is more interested in her fortune, and so she accepts the attentions of Jimmy Newton (Dearholt). Richard has been having an affair with a married woman but tires of her, and comes to appreciate the beauty of his wife. However, she will have nothing to do with him. The other woman comes back to Richard and when she finds out about his marriage, she kills him, leaving Elaine and Jimmy free to pursue their happiness.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] Cecilia''s parents live very humbly in a tenement. The father is an inventive brick layer but can scarcely pay the expenses incident for the illness of the dying mother Mary (Kershaw). After her death all the cares fall on "Celie" (Davies), who tries to mother the brother and care for her father. Father McGowan (Sullivan), priest of the parish, is interested in the family and helps the father to sell an invention to his advantage. Celie is sent to a fashionable school where her crude manners make her unpopular. She meets Harry Twombly (Benham), who becomes interested in her. Her conduct is misunderstood and she becomes unhappy. She goes abroad and develops into a woman of fine ideals and a beautiful understanding of life. She sees in her father the man he wants to be, but is considerably worried about her brother, who drinks heavily. She meets Twombly again, and he wants to marry her, but she insists that he visit her home and meet her people. There she is greatly embarrassed by her brother''s behavior and decides to refuse Twombly, but a miserable escapade of her brother''s throws him into the hands of blackmailers where Twombly saves him. She is persuaded that happiness can only be found in their marriage and at last consents.'
'comedy','Fatty is the head chef at the "Bull Pup" restaurant where Keaton serves as the head waiter. One evening while service is in full flow Keaton and Fatty entertain the crowd with their dancing (despite breaking most of the plates and bottles in the restaurant in the process). The fun is soon spoiled when a vagrant (St. John), referred to as "Holdup Man" in the film''s credits, comes in and begins ruining everyone''s good time and dancing with the waitress (Alice Lake) against her will. Fatty, Keaton and the manager are no match for Holdup Man but he is subsequently scared off by Luke, Fatty''s dog. Later, Fatty and Keaton join a pair of gentlemen in the restaurant for a big plate of spaghetti, not being able to replicate the correct way of eating it they resort to their own methods of eating one string at a time and cutting the pasta with scissors to make it shorter. The next day Fatty plans a fishing trip with Luke while Keaton simultaneously takes the waitress on a date to the amusement park. Fatty takes a shortcut through the park and knocks several people out with his exceptionally long fishing rod before arriving on the beach. The waitress gets separated from Keaton and is chased around the park by Holdup Man and ends up falling off the top of a roller coaster, falling into the sea. Holdup man is chased off by Luke yet again and Fatty and Keaton attempt to rescue the waitress but find that the key to a flotation device is "in a courthouse one mile east". Acting fast, they grab a rope to throw to the waitress but Keaton falls off the pier still holding the rope and drags Fatty in with him.'
'drama','Carroll Wayles (Ford) is a chemist who has discovered the formula for a high explosive. This is a secret All Kasarib (Gerald) wishes to learn. He uses his ward, Beulah Grey (Gaston), who is under his hypnotic power, to tempt Wayles with liquor, knowing that he has formerly been addicted to drink, but had overcome it. Wayles returns to his former mode of living. Kasarib gains the ascendency over him and learns the secret. Wayles’ spirit is taken on an imaginary trip over battlegrounds and through scenes of lust to show him the pitfalls that await slaves of the flesh. Wayles awakens a changed man. He goes to the laboratory of Kasarib, where there is a struggle, during which an explosion kills Kasarib. Wayles and the ward are then free to marry each other.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[3] Eleanor Hamlin (Roberts), who has been living with an old and impoverished couple, is adopted by two couples, Mr. and Mrs. Sears and Beulah Page (Greenwood) and Peter Bolling (Unterkircher), young people who have read of cooperative parenting and wish to try out the theory. It works very well until Jimmy Sears (Cooley) loses control of himself under the spell of his adopted daughter''s kisses. This passes, however, but then Peter falls in love with her. Beulah then tells Eleanor that she is engaged to Peter, and the heart-broken little girl goes back home. After an exhaustive search, Peter fails to find her, and he and Beulah complete their engagement. Eleanor returns, sees the true state of things, and asks God to let her be always their little girl.'
'comedy drama','Julia Deep is a young woman working behind the exchange desk at a department store. She usually serves as the clerk of wealthy and eccentric widows, such as Mrs. Lowe. She feels very lonely in the big city, until she notices books in the apartment of the star lodger in the building she lives in. The lodger, Terry Hartridge is the son of a wealthy man who is using his father''s fortune to blaze a trail across the white lights of the city. He is spending his money carelessly and doesn''t put any time in paying the bills, much to the dislike of the department store owner Timothy Black. These bills are delivered by the nobly Lottie Driscoll of the Robin Stock Company. After a while, Terry''s money spending takes its toll. He finds out he is broke and turns home depressed, trying to shoot himself. Meanwhile, Julia secretly went into his apartment to read books when he was out. She hides at first, but reveals herself when she catches him trying to kill himself. She tries to stop him and offers to be his business manager to help him spending money the right way. He takes her advice and with the help of Black, he lands into a low paying job at the department store. He neglects his job to flirt with Julia. Black discharges her, saying Terry has a career future and can''t afford to go out with a shop girl. Julia and Terry don''t stop seeing each other at their building. Terry proposes, but Julia declines, explaining it would ruin his career. Soon, Terry is promoted to a foreman on a ship. Mrs. Lowe is angry to find out her favorite clerk has been fired and visits her. She offers her to be her personal secretary at her home, but Julia doesn''t want to leave Terry and refuses the job offer. Later that day, Lottie sees Terry and Julia at the park and becomes jealous. After Terry has left, she starts to play an act she can''t live without Terry and pretends she is trying to kill herself. Julia believes her and promises to give up her relationship with Terry, if Lottie does not kill herself. Julia goes to live with Mrs. Lowe to serve as her secretary. Terry is swept away with her disappearance and visits her at Mrs. Lowe''s mansion. She explains her reason of leaving him. Terry sees through Lottie''s act and takes her to the theater, where Lottie is performing the same act on stage she performed at the park. She realizes what happened and reunites with him. They decide to elope, but are stopped by Mrs. Lowe and Black. They fight over who has the fault and are noticed by the local sheriff. He is fed up with their kibbering and decides to arrest the four of them. They are locked into a room, where they eventually apologize. Julia and Terry escape, but the sheriff''s help notices and runs after them. Meanwhile, it is revealed Mrs. Lowe and Black were once lovers. They reunite and escape as well to get married. In the ending, the sheriff realizes they don''t belong in jail. After Mrs. Lowe and Black get a marriage license, they promise to give Julia and Terry a fancy wedding.'
'mystery','As described in a film magazine,[3] Carma Carmichael (Storey), who lives with her uncle Quincy Carmichael (Andrews), is kidnapped by her father and held for ransom. In order to trap the criminals and secure Jack Carrington (Barker) as Carma''s husband, Quincy fakes his death and makes Jack his heir. Carma is angered by her uncle''s action is determined to take her rightful place. By going through some of her uncle''s papers, she discovers that the man she believes to be her father is an impostor and that her father is dead. Carma''s supposed father and a group of moonshiners attack the Carmichael home and are fought off by Carma, Jack, and a friend. Quincy, believing it is time to return to life, does so in time to get the sheriff''s posse on the house grounds, drive off the moonshiners, and capture the crooks.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Joan (Murray), a waif that was adopted by the keeper of a boarding house, runs away and becomes a cashier at a restaurant, but quits when the manager attempts to make love to her. She meets Louie (Ferguson), with whom she was once friendly, and he forces her to steal for him. She is caught and sentenced to a state reformatory. En route she escapes from the train by jumping into a stream and swims ashore, where she is picked up by Bertram (Oakman), the son of wealthy parents. He takes her home and she is permitted to stay there. Louie tries several times to get Joan under his power, but fails. Bertram marries Joan despite her past.'
'drama','The plot centers around an inter-racial romance between a Chinese princess (Talmadge) and an American (Meighan). When palace officials discover she has become pregnant she is sentenced to death. In the latter part of the film Talmadge plays the now adult daughter of the affair, seeking her father in the Philippines.'
'comedy drama','As described in a film magazine,[1] Dorothy Dean (Kennedy), a young woman opposed to marriage, is shocked to find that under the terms of a wealthy aunt''s will she is compelled to wed in order to inherit the estate. She advertises for a man who will go through the marriage ceremony and become her husband for a consideration and then leave her. Her lawyer has difficulty in obtaining a suitable young man when Dorothy mistakes Don Morton (Fellowes), a law student working in the office, for an applicant and a wedding is arranged. Don falls in love with the willful miss and kidnaps her. Leaving her at a cabin on an island, he returns to the mainland. The cabin is the rendezvous of thieves, and when Don discovers that the gang is going back to the shack he swims the river, rescues Dorothy after a hard fight with the gang and turns them over to the police. Dorothy then accepts her "husband friend" as her real husband.'
'comedy','A young girl suddenly finds herself wealthy, but lacking in social graces. She calls upon the disinherited son from a wealthy family for help.'
'fantasy','Most of the full plot is unknown. In the version available today, Holmes (Dawley) tells his nephews and children about an adventure he had in the woodlands around Slumber Mountain, near the Valley of Dreams. He finds the cabin belonging to the late hermit Mad Dick, who Holmes''s friend Joe once saw carrying a strange telescope-like instrument. That night, Holmes searches the cabin and finds the instrument. Upon doing so, the ghost of Mad Dick (O''Brien) instructs him to use it to look at the peak of Slumber Mountain. When he does, he seemingly looks back into the past, seeing a Tyrannosaurus and a Triceratops doing battle. The Tyrannosaurus proves triumphant, and after killing the Triceratops, breaks the time barrier and begins chasing Holmes. It is then revealed that Holmes dreamed everything. The children then tackle him for thinking of a good tall tale.'
'drama','The story is about a young woman who is a quarter Native American Indian, Mary Thorne (Glaum), who returns to the home of her prospector father, Marshall Thorne (Dowling), after completing her education in the East. She has a college degree and an air of refinement. While her father is away hunting for gold at Lost Lake, Mary enjoys the freedom of his mountain cabin. When two hunters on a hunting expedition, Mark Hamilton (Butt) and Chester Martin (Mack), show up and visit the cabin she decides to put on Indian clothing and pretend she is a full-blooded Indian princess for fun. Both men are attracted to the Indian maiden and Hamilton falls deeply in love with her. Martin, however, is contemptuous of her Indian background. When Mary hears him making derisive remarks about the Indian race, she returns to her father''s cabin. Martin follows her home, enters her bedroom, and attacks her. Hamilton comes to her rescue and prevents Martin from raping her. He then looks around the room and sees the modern decor. Realizing that Mary is a young woman of culture and education, he becomes angry because she fooled him and leaves. Meanwhile, while Mary''s father is searching for gold, which legend has it is at the bottom of Lost Lake, a legend that also says a white man who once stole some of the gold killed an Indian prince and a white man''s blood must fall before anymore gold can be taken, he is killed by an Indian guard at Lost Lake. Mary inherits the gold that her father discovered. Hamilton, who cannot forget her, comes back and they are married.'
'war drama','As described in a film magazine,[5] Jim Young (Harron) of Youngstown, Pennsylvania, reads of the German war atrocities and decides to enlist in the British army, thus becoming a forerunner of the American forces that are subsequently to leave for the battlefields of Europe. He begins active training at a camp outside London. While enjoying a few hours of leave, he meets Susie Broadplains (Gish), a young woman from Australia. She is flattered by his attentions and their friendship soon blossoms into love. Susie''s one dissipation consists of walking in Pump Lane with her soldier boy. She falls heir to 20,000 pounds and at once becomes the object of much solicitude from Sir Roger Brighton (Walthall), a fortune hunter. When Jim is ordered with his regiment to go to the Front, he has no time to bid her adieu. Sir Rogers seeks to force his marriage before he leaves for Paris on a business trip, and she accepts him. German plotters plan to destroy an arsenal at night and Sir Roger is inveigled into driving an automobile along a London road with its lights turned skyward to guide the Zeppelins. Jim, wounded and home on furlough, detects Sir Roger on the lonely road, follows and traps him in his cottage. Sir Roger turns his pistol on himself rather than be taken alive. Susie finds the "great love" in service for the cause of democracy and her country, with a greater love in sight.'
'war drama','As described in a film magazine,[6] Leo Peret (Lestina) has a small quiet tobacco shop in Greenwich Village. Edward Livingston (Harron), a wealthy young clubman and man-about-town, comes in frequently ostensibly to buy cigarettes but in reality to talk to the daughter Jeannette (Gish), and he is soon in love with the little shop girl. Leo is homesick for his native France, but lacks the funds to make the passage. Edward, learning of their plight, sends $1,000 with a note saying that the money is payment for a good deed. Leo accepts the money and he and Jeannette embark at once. In France Leo regains his health but suffers a broken leg. When Edward learns of this he goes to France and seeks out Jeannette to resume his lovemaking. He finds that he has a rival, however, in Mons Le Bebe, a grocer, and after forcefully embracing Jeannette one evening, she bids him to be gone forever. She is discouraged over Le Bebe''s fondness for garlic and his refusal to accept the beauties of Chantecler. But a chicken is just a chicken to Le Bebe. War with Germany is declared and Le Bebe marches off to battle with Jeannette''s blessing. The French soldiers are driven from the town by the Germans and Jeannette, her father and aunt, and little Peaches (Jackson) seek safety in the cellar. Leo is trusted with the hiding place of a telephone and he volunteers to keep the French posted. In defense of the town Le Bebe is shot in the leg, and he drags himself to the cellar. Jeannette hides him under some sand and he escapes capture. Meanwhile, Edward has enlisted in the American army that comes to the aid of France, and although he despises his fellow soldiers, he is a brave man. In a charge two companies become mixed and he finds himself in a shell hole with a black soldier who is dying. Edward''s manliness asserts itself and he accomplishes the soldier''s final request. Leo is discovered listening to a German officer (Peil) discussing plans and is shot. He creeps back to the cellar and Jeannette relays the information by telephone to the French. Just as the Germans reach the cellar and force their way in, American troops enter the town. Le Bebe dies defending Jeannette, and she is saved from death by an American scouting party led by Edward. Later at the town''s bakery shop, Jeannette hands out cakes and pies to the soldiers. Edward renews his lovemaking, and she is pleased with her American sweetheart.'
'adventure','As described in a film magazine,[2] the principle duty of bank clerk Jerry Martin is to care for the bank president''s pet canary. The bird escapes and Jerry starts in pursuit. In a chase that takes him far afield, Jerry meets a hobo and decides to give up his bank job. Baron Bean (Montana), another hobo, becomes his valet, but they desert Jerry when he is taking a bath and steal his clothes. He finds a suit belonging to William Batchelor (MacQuarrie), a broker who is cooling off at a pool, and with the broker''s business cards he passes himself off as Batchelor. He meets John Bartlett (Campeau) and his daughter Billie (Daw) and promptly falls in love. Her father is also a stock broker who has been nicked by Batchelor. An attempt is made to corner the market while Jerry is being entertained, but he foils the plotters, falls heir to a fortune, and wins the love of Billie.'
'romantic comedy','As described in a film magazine,[3] a forest ranger known only as Headin'' South (Fairbanks) goes forth in search of Spanish Joe (Campeau), a Mexican responsible for most of the treachery and outlawry along the U.S.-Mexican boarder. Headin'' South gains quite a reputation as he goes along and finally believes himself worthy of joining Joe''s band. in a whirlwind finish in which Joe is captured, Headin'' South meets one of Joe''s near victims (MacDonald) and falls in love with her.'
'propaganda','Nanette (Dorothy Phillips), an American girl living in a small Canadian village, is in love with John Patricia (William Stowell), the eldest of five brothers. The war interrupts their romantic idyll, as everyone goes overseas to Belgium and France. Nanette becomes a Red Cross nurse and is terrorized by the evil Prussian Lt. von Eberhard (Erich von Stroheim). It is up to John to save her from the Hun''s advances.'
'ww1 propaganda','Two families live next to one another in a French village on the eve of World War I. The Boy in one of the families falls for the only daughter in the other family. As they make preparations for marriage, World War I breaks out, and, although the Boy is American, he feels he should fight for the country in which he lives. When the French retreat, the village is shelled. The Boy''s father and the Girl''s mother and grandfather are killed. The Girl, deranged, wanders aimlessly through the battlefield and comes upon the Boy badly wounded and unconscious. She finds her way back to the village where she is nursed back to health by The Little Disturber who had previously been a rival for the Boy''s affections. The Boy is carried off by the Red Cross. Von Strohm, a German officer, lusts after the Girl and attempts to rape her, but she narrowly escapes when he is called away by his commanding officer. Upon his recovery, the Boy, disguised as a German officer, infiltrates the enemy-occupied village, finds the Girl. The two of them are forced to kill a German sergeant who discovers them. Von Strohm finds the dead sergeant and locates the Boy and Girl who are locked in an upper room at the inn. It is a race against time with the Germans trying to break the door down as the French return to retake the village.'
'western','As described in a film magazine,[2] Bess Thurston (Gerber), whose no-account brother Jack (Pegg) is unable to support her, obtains employment in a dance hall. This shatters the illusions of Cheyenne Harry (Carey), who has fallen in love with her. When he rescues her from the advances of Beau Ross (Harris), Cheyenne''s confidence in her is restored. Her brother then aids Beau in an attempted robbery and Harry allows them to escape. Beau takes Bess with him into the desert. Harry follows and a duel ensues in which they are both wounded. Bess rides the only horse left out of the desert, while Beau and Harry struggle along on foot. A sandstorm results in the death of Beau, but Harry lives to find happiness with Bess.'
'drama','Socialite but penniless orphan Lily Bart is living with her wealthy aunt who insists that she takes upon herself a rich husband. Balking at this idea and remaining faithful to her impecunious sweetheart Lawrence Selden (Henry Kolker), Lily is desirous of maintaining her luxurious lifestyle: she accepts the financial "favors" of some married millionaires but refuses to surrender her virtue in return – until she discovers that her sainted Selden has been fooling around with another man''s wife.'
'comedy drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] while in a graveyard trying an old remedy to get rid of their warts, Tom (Pickford) and Huck (Gordon) witness a murder. At the trial their repetition of the story clears Muff Potter (Bates), an innocent suspect and victim of Injun Joe''s (Lanning) plot. Injun Joe escapes to the Painted Cave, where the next day Tom and Becky (Horton) become lost. After a four-day search the missing ones come home and the entrance to the Painted Cave is sealed. Tom tells Judge Thatcher (Burton) that Injun Joe is hiding there. The entrance to the cave is opened and the dead body of the murderer is brought out. Tom and Huck become the possessors of a treasure they found, and with this fortune they plan on becoming great and fierce robbers.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] determined to lay down her life if necessary for her country, Princess Marya (Storey) mobilizes an army of Russian peasant women and is stationed in one of the front line trenches. German forces are about to overrun her battery when American volunteers arrive, and the Germans are dispelled. With autocracy abolished in Russia, Marya consents to become the wife of American Captain Rodney Willard (McCullough).'
'biopic','The story of six affairs of the heart, drawn from controversial feminist author Mary MacLane''s 1910 syndicated article(s) by the same name, later published in book form in 1917. None of MacLane''s affairs - with "the bank clerk," "the prize-fighter," "the husband of another," and so on - last, and in each of them MacLane emerges dominant. Re-enactments of the love affairs are interspersed with MacLane addressing the camera (while smoking), and talking contemplatively with her maid on the meaning and prospects of love.[3]'
'comedy','Mickey (Normand) is an adult orphan who has been raised since girlhood in poverty near Feather River, California by an unsuccessful miner, Joe Meadows, and his housekeeper, Minnie. Mickey is the free-spirited, uncultured daughter of the miner''s deceased partner. Meadows took charge of Mickey at his dying partner''s request. Mickey is sent to live in Great Neck, Long Island--part of suburban New York City--with her aunt (Mrs. Geoffrey Drake) and her family. Mrs. Drake is under the impression that Mickey is wealthy and well refined. When Mickey arrives at her aunt''s luxurious home, the aunt is disappointed that she is not well-to-do and puts her to work as a servant. Mickey''s presence there sparks an awkward love triangle involving her, her cousin (Elsie Drake), and young mining executive Herbert Thornhill (Wheeler Oakman) whom Mickey first encountered in California. Just after Mickey is sent packing, a telegram arrives for her announcing that a vein has been struck on Joe''s Tomboy mine and she is suddenly worth millions. Mrs. Drake''s opinion of Mickey changes quickly and she is welcomed back--in the hope she and Reggie Drake will become a couple. Herbert had recently proposed to Elsie, but realizes he truly loves Mickey. Shortly afterward, Herbert receives a telegram from his lawyer, Tom Rawlings, explaining that his mining claims are now invalid and thus worthless. Elsie and Mrs. Drake find the telegram and call off the wedding because Herbert is now bankrupt. Herbert tries to regain his fortune by borrowing $5,000 and betting it on a horse race. The race is rigged--and Mickey finds out about the plot. Just as the race is about to begin, Mickey dresses in jockey silks, unhorses the crooked jockey, and tries to win the race by riding it for Herbert. Just as it appears Mickey''s horse will win, she falls from her mount. Some time later Mickey reluctantly goes horseback riding with Reggie who tries to molest her in an abandoned house. Herbert arrives on the scene, battles Reggie, and rescues Mickey as she is dangling dangerously from the rooftop. Mickey and Herbert are married. As they depart on their honeymoon, a note arrives from lawyer Rawlings explaining the earlier telegram about his mining interests being worthless was a ruse designed to get Herbert out of his loveless engagement to Elsie Drake. The film ends with both Mickey and Herbert happily in love, wed, and exceedingly wealthy.'
'comedy','Set in the Virginia Hills, Fatty and Buster play revenue agents tasked with hunting down bootleggers and bringing them to justice. The duo, aided by dozens of volunteers (all of whom somehow manage to fit inside Buster''s small car) set off to track down the bootlegers. Fatty and Buster get separated from the group and take a tumble down a hill which leave Fatty''s pants dirty. After Fatty washes his pants in a river (while Buster is wearing them) and leaves them to dry in a tree, he meets Alice (Alice Lake), the daughter of Jud Grew (Dudley) the head bootlegger with whom he develops a romance. After fighting another bootlegger who is madly in love with Alice (St John) Fatty reunites with Buster and the two stumble across the bootlegger''s storage space where they find a stash of illegal moonshine. Fatty is ambushed and taken away by the bootlegger but Buster gets away and dispatches of the love rival bootlegger by pushing him off a cliff. Fatty is taken back to the bootlegger''s hideout where, taking inspiration from The Count of Monte Cristo by Alexandre Dumas, he escapes by pretending to be dead so that the bootleggers will throw him into the river, after being thrown into the water he floats downstream before swimming to shore where he reunites with Buster. The two make a plan to rescue Alice and to take down the bootlegger but realize that their band of volunteers is nowhere to be found. The love rival bootlegger from earlier sneaks up on them, knocks out Keaton and with help from his fellow bootleggers takes Arbuckle to a cabin and lights the fuse to a bomb inside. The cabin explodes but Arbuckle breaks the fourth wall by having the camera wound backwards so that the cabin reassembles itself and he emerges totally unharmed. Arbuckle takes out the love rival bootlegger by using a gun that he has modified so that it can shoot around corners and Buster dispatches of the remaining bootleggers except for the leader. The leader proclaims that Fatty has proven himself worthy and gives him his blessing to marry Alice but Fatty immediately refuses, revealing that he already has a wife. Buster agrees to marry Alice instead and Fatty sets off down the hills towards his next adventure.'
'romantic comedy','As described in a film magazine,[3] because of his ability to fix things Dick Remington (Fairbanks) becomes known as "Mr. Fix-It" and enters the aristocratic home of the Burroughs as their nephew. Before long he has melted the stone hearts of three aunts and one uncle and won the heart of Mary McCullough (Hawley) in addition to setting aright the affairs of pretty Georgiana Burroughs (MacDonald) and Olive Van Tassell (Landis).'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[1] Jules Leneau (Lewis) and his wife Jane (Maye), living in a cabin in the Northwoods, are inconsolable after the death of their infant son. Through the wicked scheme of Red Adair (Eason) and his partner, trappers who live below the Leneaus, a child from the city is kidnapped and brought to the woods. The child wanders away and falls into a bear trap set by Jules, who discovers him there. The child is adopted by Jules and his wife and, because of her joy, he does not try to discover where the child is from. Red Adair makes several attempts to recover the child, and as a result Jules learns where the child belongs, and resolves to give him up despite Jane''s pleadings. She is about to cast herself from a cliff when the story is brought to a happy and unexpected ending.'
'comedy','Bebe plays a pretty young thing with several suitors, including Harold, competing to win her affections.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] disgusted by the unattractive, slovenly appearance of his wife Sophy (Ashton), Charles Murdock (Dexter) goes on a long hunting trip. He meets Juliet Raeburn (Vidor), falls in love with her, and while telling her of his love, he reveals that he is a married man. Upon his return his wife flies into a frenzy of jealousy. To forget, he goes out with his business partner Tom Berkeley (Roberts), meets Viola Hastings (Manon), who is being provided for by Berkeley, and another woman of the cafes. Viola shoots Berkeley when she finds him in another woman''s bedroom and Juliet Raeburn''s name is connected to the scandal by a false report. Murdock, to protect Juliet, goes abroad with another woman. After his wife obtains a divorce, Juliet and Murdock meet in Venice, renew their friendship, and marry.'
'animated series','The series is the result of three experimental short films Max Fleischer produced independently in the period 1914-1916 to demonstrate his invention, the rotoscope, which was a device made up of a movie projector and a stand used as an aid to obtain realistic movements in cartoons . The rotoscope projected a film film through an opening in the stand, covered by a glass plate acting as a design surface. The image on the projected film was drawn on paper, advancing the film one frame at a time as each drawing was made. Brother Dave Fleischer was working as clowns at Coney Island, and served as a model for what would become their first famous character, Koko the Clown. Out of the Inkwell was started at Bray Productions as a monthly release at The Bray''s Pictorgraph Screen Magazine produced for Paramount Pictures from 1918 to 1920 and later for Goldwyn Pictures in 1921. In the same year, Fleischer brothers opened their studio, And in 1923 the clown who had previously no name began to be known as Ko-Ko when veteran animator Dick Huemer became the new director of animation. Huemer, who started animating with the Mutt and Jeff series in 1916, brought the influence of that series into Out of the Inkwell and created a small canine partner named Fitz. Huemer also redesigned the clown for animation and brought the Fleischer away from their dependence on the rotoscope. He also defined the design style with its distinctive inking quality for which the series was famous. But it was the integration and interaction of live action sequences featuring Max Fleischer who spun the series. Generally, cartons begin live action by showing Max who begins his day. He begins to draw characters on paper, or open the inkwell and they come out and interact with reality. An image of Ko-Ko at The Chinese Restaurant (1927) of The Inkwell Imps series, with Koko il Clown and Fitz the Dog. The Out of the Inkwell series lasted from 1918 to 1926, the following year was renamed The Inkwell Imps for Paramount and continued until 1929. Fleischer continued in the series, acting as an actor, producer, screenwriter and animator for his studio Out of The Inkwell Films, producing 62 episodes of Out of the Inkwell and 56 by The Inkwell Imps. Although the Inkwell Imps series was replaced by Talkartoons in 1929, Koko il Clown returned in 1931 as a supporting character with Bimbo and Betty Boop. Koko''s latest cinematic appearance was in the hilarious Betty Boop Gas cartoon (1934), which was a remake of The Cure (1924) of this series. Koko had a short cameo in his only color film appearance in the episode of Screen Songs Toys will be Toys (1949). In 1955, short films of the Out of the Inkwell series, together with another 2500 Paramount pre-1950 shorts, were sold to television, the majority acquired by U.M. & M. TV. Corp. In 1958 Max Fleischer activated a new study in a partnership with Hal Seeger, and in 1960 produced a television series called Out of the Inkwell, consisting of 100 episodes of five minutes each. In the new color series, KoKo had a clown girl named KoKette and an antagonist named Mean Moe. Larry Storch dubbed KoKo and all the supporting characters. Much of the shorts in the original series are now in the public domain.'
'comedy','Arbuckle plays a drifter who has caught a ride hiding in a train''s water tank but is thrown off the train after being discovered stealing food from the passengers. He is chased by a group of Indians who intend to kill and eat him. He runs to a town called Mad Dog Gulch where he inadvertently foils a robbery attempt by Wild Bill Hickup (St John) and his gang after which the town sheriff (Keaton) appoints him the new bar tender of the local bar "The Last Chance Saloon". Later Hickup returns, this time drunk and causing chaos in the bar. After he begins forcing himself on a young lady "Salvation Sue" (Lake), The Bartender and the sheriff attempt to eject Hickup once again. When their attempts to knock him out by breaking bottles over his head and even shooting him in the back prove ineffective, they manage to subdue him by tickling him until he flees. Humiliated, Hickup attempts to gain his revenge by kidnapping Sue and riding out of the town with her as his gang keep the bartender and the sheriff at bay. The bartender eventually breaks free and chases Hickup back to his shack as the Sheriff holds off Hickup''s men. After once again subduing Hickup by tickling him, the bartender and Sue push his shack off a hill with him still inside.'
'comedy drama','Burton Grant exposes politician Jarvis McVey as a crook in a newspaper and is run out of town. He asks his daughter Sylvia to turn his job at the Daily News over to editor Frank Summers. Sylvia has inherited her father''s talents and decides to fire Frank and take over the newspaper herself. Meanwhile, Frank finds out McVey is involved in a scheme concerning the city franchise. When Sylvia is informed, she publishes the news. She publishes stories about merchants who do not do business in ways that she believes are correct, which almost ruins the paper. Soon, the townspeople are after her and her father comes back to protect her against the outraged townsfolk, while Frank concerns about proving her reliability. She is successful in preventing McVey from furthering his graft policies, and becomes engaged to Frank.[3][4]'
'western','As described in a film magazine,[2] Alva Leigh (Storey), having been sent for by her fiance, arrives in the west only to find him dead. She is determined to find his slayer and is assisted in her search by Dick Randall (Oakman). Duncan, owner of a dance hall, is anxious to get Alva under his power and leads her to believe that Dick killed her sweetheart. Dick, in love with Alva, has prepared to cross the desert to record a deed to a mine that was owned by him and Alva''s late sweetheart. In revenge, Alva cuts holes in Dick''s canteens and allows the water to leak out. After Dick has been gone several hours, Alva learns that he is innocent, so she rushes out in the desert after him. After traveling several miles, she fall exhausted only to be rescued by Dick. He forgives her and they have a happy reunion.'
'adventure','The film opens with flashbacks from Tarzan of the Apes to establish the back story. The African expedition led by Professor Porter (Thomas Jefferson) to find Tarzan (Elmo Lincoln), the ape-raised heir of Lord Greystoke, has been crowned with success, and Tarzan and Porter''s daughter Jane (Enid Markey) are in love. The party now prepares to return to civilization when it is attacked by natives and separated from the ape-man. Tarzan''s paternal cousin William Cecil Clayton (Colin Kenny), the current Lord Greystoke, desiring to keep his wealth and title, reports having seen the savages kill Tarzan. Believing him dead, they leave without their charge. But Tarzan has in fact survived, and is eager to be reunited with Jane. Finding his new friends gone he swims out to another boat to follow. Eventually he reaches the United States, and is landed near the Porters'' ranch in San Francisco, California. Tarzan in civilization is like a bull in a china shop, as is demonstrated early in a destructive incident in a dance hall, where his prowess impresses La Belle Odine (Cleo Madison). Things get back on track when Jane is kidnapped by outlaws, presenting him with the opportunity to rescue her. Jane, however, is cold to him, as Clayton has falsely convinced her he is in love with the other woman. Heartbroken, Tarzan swears off civilization and returns to Africa. Belatedly learning the truth from Odine, Jane follows, and is happily reunited with her lover in the jungle.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[1] Salome uses her wiles in pursuit of King Herod, whose power she desires. She has disposed of Herod''s chief rival, and causes his wife to be killed through her own treachery. John the Baptist, who has secured a hold on the people, denounces Herod and his court. Herod has John thrown in jail for fomenting sedition. There Salome meets him, and becomes crazed with passion, but when John rejects her she seeks revenge. With a sensuous dance she gains the approval of Herod, and demands John''s head as her reward. This act brings her own punishment when she is crushed to death beneath the sharp spokes on the shields of the Roman legionnaires.'
'western','As described in a film magazine,[2] "Kaintuck" Ridge (Carey), refused admission to the local militia to fight on the side of Union in the American Civil War, joins a gang of marauders and at the end of the conflict finds himself a fugitive with a price on his head. He goes west and becomes a bandit. Marley Calvert (Pegg), who kept Kaintuck out of the army, also goes west and takes up mining. Betty Calvert (Schade) is taken captive when Kaintuck holds up a stage coach. His hatred for the Calverts is overcome by his admiration for Molly (Malone) and later, when her honor is attacked by a former suitor, he defends her and wins her love.'
'drama','After discovering that her grandmother was a gypsy, Roma Wycliffe leaves her old- money life with her Aunt Henrietta, and goes to New York City to live as a gypsy. Once she arrives in New York, Roma is mistaken for a thief and arrested. The kindly and rich woman Mrs. Roberts volunteers to take her under her wing to prevent her from going to jail. Her son John Roberts falls in love with Roma. Roma does not return his feelings, because his rich life style is a far cry from the freedom of gypsy life. John hires a group of street thugs to pretend to be his gypsy crew. The “gypsies” take their new role as gypsy thieves too far and start robbing a bank. John turns them in to the authorities. John and Roma agree to marry.'
'comedy','Charlie is in boot camp in the "awkward squad." Once in France he gets no letters from home. He finally gets a package containing limburger cheese which requires a gas mask and which he throws over into the German trench. He goes "over the top" and captures thirteen Germans ("I surrounded them"), then volunteers to wander through the German lines disguised as a tree trunk. With the help of a French girl he captures the Kaiser and the Crown Prince and is given a statue and victory parade in New York and then ... fellow soldiers wake him from his dream.'
'comedy drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] Iris Lee (Minter) has tired of her humdrum country existence and one night steals away from the home of Martha Kane (Schaefer), with whom she had been living, and goes to the city intent on becoming a singer. Slowly rising from a church soloist to a prima donna, her dreams are finally realized. While in the city she meets Jack Andrews (Forrest) and falls in love with him, but when he comes to her one night intoxicated, she sends him away. Grieving over Jack she returns to her home town where, having his manhood returned, he finds her by accident.'
'western','As described in a film magazine,[3] Jim Wynnegate (Dexter), a young Englishman, assumes the guilt for the embezzlement of trust funds that were lost in speculation by his cousin Henry (Hall). He embarks to the United States and settles in the west, where he buys a ranch. In a quarrel with Cash Hawkins (Holt), Jim is saved from death by Naturich (Little), a young Indian woman, who shoots the outlaw. He marries her out of gratitude and becomes known as the squaw man. Soon a son is born, and five years pass. His cousin Henry and Jim is summoned back to England to assume the title Earl of Kerhill, he having been exonerated by the deathbed confession of his cousin. He decides to send his son home to England, and the parting between the mother and son are most pathetic. Naturich, about to be arrested for the killing of Hawkins, commits suicide while huddled among her child''s playthings.'
'drama','Stella Maris (Mary Pickford) was born paralyzed and is unable to walk. Her wealthy guardians try to prevent her from being exposed to all the bad that is happening in the world. She is not allowed to leave her room in a London mansion and is bound to her bed. Her door even has a sign on it which says: "All unhappiness and world wisdom leave outside. Those without smiles need not enter." [1] Stella has no idea a war is going on in the world and that there are poor and hungry people. John Risca (Conway Tearle) is a well-known journalist and a friend of the family. He has been unhappily married to Louise for six years now and frequently visits Stella. John wants Stella to think he is perfect and lies about being unmarried. Louise, meanwhile, wants a servant in her house and hires orphan Unity Blake (also Mary Pickford). Unity is uneducated and has been deprived and mistreated for her entire life. This resulted in her being afraid of everyone. One night, a drunk Louise orders Unity to get some groceries. Unity does what she is told and on her way back, the food is stolen by kids. She returns to the home only to be beaten by an outraged Louise. Unity is severely hurt and Louise gets arrested. It is announced she will have to serve three years in prison. John is kinder to Unity and adopts her. Unity is very grateful and falls in love with him. John himself is only interested in Stella. John wishes Unity to be raised at the Blount''s residence, but they don''t want her. They prevent her from meeting Stella, fearing Stella will notice there are suffering people in the world. They finally convince John to raise Unity at Aunt Gladys'' house. In order to make John fall in love with her, Unity starts to educate herself. Meanwhile, Stella gets an operation and is able to walk after three years. She meets John and they fall in love. One day she decides to give John a surprise visit. Louise, who has just been released from jail, opens the door and tells Stella the truth about her marriage. Stella is heartbroken upon learning that he lied to her about his marriage. Feeling betrayed, she tells John to leave her alone and refuses to talk to her family upon seeing how much sadness and pain are in the world. Meanwhile, Unity uses one of John''s suits and pretends he is asking her to marry him. When he comes home heartbroken over losing Stella, she tries to busy herself with work. As she hears Aunt Gladys'' concerns about John''s inability to be free to love Stella while Louise lives, Unity realizes she and John can never be a couple. At her relatives'' home, Stella reconciles with them and comes to the realization that while there will be sadness and pain in the world, there are also joy and happiness that follows it. At Aunt Gladys'' home, Unity writes him a note which she thanks him for showing her kindness and says he should get together with Stella. She secretly grabs a gun from a gun collection and settles the score by killing Louise for the pain she inflicted on herself, Stella and John. Unity next kills herself, making the police think it was a revenge murder as her troubled history is well known even to them. Aunt Gladys convinces Stella''s wealthy relatives to give John another chance and not think badly about Unity for she helped free him from his abusive wife. John is reunited with Stella and they marry.'
'adventure','John and Alice Clayton, Lord and Lady Greystoke (True Boardman and Kathleen Kirkham), are passengers on the Fuwalda, a ship bound for Africa. When the vessel is taken over by mutineers the sailor Binns (George B. French) saves them from being murdered, but they are marooned on the tropical coast. After their deaths their infant son is adopted by Kala, an ape, who raises him as her own. The young Tarzan (Gordon Griffith) grows to maturity among the apes, becoming their king. Binns, returning to find the Claytons after ten years’ captivity among the Arabs, discovers the ape man and travels to England to report his survival to his family. An expedition led by scientist Professor Porter (Thomas Jefferson) is launched to investigate. Meanwhile, Kala has been killed by a native, who is killed in turn by the now-adult Tarzan (Elmo Lincoln). The villagers kidnap Porter’s daughter Jane (Enid Markey); Tarzan rescues and romances her, and she comes to accept his love.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Yvonne (Vidor), the wife of German officer Karl Von Drutz (von Seyffertitz), is left in their Belgian home at the start of World War I. King Albert (Hall) stops at the house during his retreat where he finds little Jacques (Stone) playing soldier. The king tells him to be brave and wait "till I come back to you." America enters the war and Capt. Jefferson Strong (Washburn) is detailed to destroy the German storehouse containing their liquid fire supply. He pretends to be an escaped German soldier and hides in Yvonne''s cottage, learns of the supplies, and directs the tunneling under the house. Von Drutz returns, finds Strong telephoning, and a terrific struggle ensues. Little Jacques takes a score of orphans from a nearby asylum and they escape through the tunnel. Strong saves the lives of the children but is arrested for disobedience, tried, and court martialed. Through the influence of King Albert he is saved from being shot. Yvonne, whose husband has been killed, finds consolation in Strong''s love.'
'adventure','As described in a film magazine,[3] Jim Hawkins (Carpenter) and his mother operate the Admiral Ben Bow Inn, and when they are threatened by an attack by pirates they go to the home of their friend, the squire, for the night. Mrs. Hawkins (Washington) hands the squire a package she found in a chest that was owned by Billy Bones, one of her boarders who had died. The squire discovers a map showing the location of treasure buried by someone named Flint. Jim, overhearing the squire''s plans to recover the treasure, goes to sleep and dreams that he, Louise (Corbin), and a ship''s crew have set out to find the gold. Long John Silver (Radcliffe), their first mate, is a crook and with some of the men plan to rob Jim and Louise of the treasure. After a fight on the island and the killing off of Long John Silver''s men, Long John Silver joins Jim and his gang and through Ben Gunn (Sargent) they find the treasure. Just as Jim is about to distribute it, he wakes up.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[1] when Maria Valverda (Bara) refuses the attentions of Diablo Ramirez (Nye), he starts an insurrection among the native Filipinos. Maria''s father Don Ramon is killed and Maria is held hostage. She gets word to Capt. Paul Winter (Roscoe) of the American troops in Manila and he comes to her assistance, but his troops are outnumbered and they are made prisoners by the revolting revolutionists. Maria and Paul attempt to escape, but they are caught and brought back. At the Manila headquarters, trouble is suspected and reinforcements are sent. Before long, the revolt is subdued and peace reigns over Maria''s home, and happiness over the betrothal of Maria and Paul.'
'romantic comedy','As described in a film magazine,[3] Kitty O''Brien (Normand), a seamstress in the factory of Braddock & Co., in an effort to escape punishment from the foreman she had mimicked, flees into the manager''s office. While explaining her presence she shows a bathing suit she has designed, John Braddock (Francis) embraces the idea and the display of the suit brings orders galore. When Braddock is compelled to take a rest, Kitty takes charge of the plant. She gives a young male applicant a job as office boy, but discovers he is the son of her employer, Paul Braddock (La Rocque), expelled from college. She frees him from an indiscreet love affair and, with the return of the elder Braddock, a romance is culminated.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[1] very much in love with her husband, Charity Coe Cheever (Williams) discovers that her husband is in love with Zada L''Etoile (Breamer), a popular dancer, and so she divorces him. Jim Dyckman (Dexter), who has always loved Charity since their childhood days, after finding it impossible to win Charity had married film actress Kedzie Thropp (Hawley). When Jim is free but Charity is not, Jim is very disappointed, but both decide to make the best of it. During one of Jim''s absences Kedzie meets the young British airman, the Marquis Of Strathdene (Hatten), and falls very much in love with him. Out for a ride one evening, Jim and Charity are forced during a storm to remain in a roadhouse. Here is Kedzie''s chance, she sues for divorce and marries her English aviator. The start of the war puts Jim in the trenches in Europe and Charity in a convalescent hospital, they meet again and love finally wins.'
'comedy','Nora, An actress (Enid Bennett) is performing in an adaptation of Uncle Tom''s Cabin in a Texas town. A sheriff enters with an attachment against the show. Nora, dressed as Little Eva, escapes from the venue and gets onto a train. A tramp makes advances towards her, causing her to jump from the train. She lands in a field and is arrested for looking suspicious. She is saved from jail by Ma Forbes (Gertrude Claire), who is after someone to help her with some residents at her boarding house. The boarders "Soup" McCool (Jack Nelson) and "Pug" Hennessy (Robert McKim) are actually criminals. They con Ma''s son, James (Albert Ray) out of $300. They then plan a bank robbery with the help of Nora. They think she is a safecracker, who they''ve been expecting. Nora plays along, and opens the safe, as she was given the combination from James. Once the safe has been cracked, Nora raises the alarm and the crooks are caught. Afterwards, James proposes to Nora.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] Doris Standish (Hall), being forced into an unwanted marriage with an aged millionaire, follows the advice of a maid and jumps into a waiting automobile driven by Jimmy Nevin (Sutherland). After an automobile accident that wrecks the car, Doris and Jimmy seek refuge from a storm in a barn. To this same barn come the butler and maid with the stolen wedding presents. Doris transposes bags and goes to a rooming house with Jimmy, but the crooks follow. Doris escapes, but before she can warn her uncle and the millionaire, they are trapped by the crooks. Doris returns to the rooming house and is followed by the police. The crooks are arrested. Jimmy asks the uncle for Doris'' hand and the millionaire gives his blessing.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] John Tremble (Hatton), cashier in a contracting concern, succumbs to temptation and steals $1000 from his employer. He runs away and hides when he begins to fear detection to an isolated island where he becomes a bit of human driftwood. While fishing he finds the body of a dead man and, listening to the voice of evil, he exchanges clothes and then mutilates the head of the corpse. The finding of the body is reported to his family and he begins life anew. The police continue to search for the murderer and Tremble is finally brought to trial. Meanwhile, Jane Tremble (Williams), his former wife, has become the wife of the governor and does not recognize John Tremble when she sees him in court. After a dramatic trial, John Tremble is found guilty of his own murder, and nobly meets death in the electric chair rather than bring unhappiness to his former wife.'
'comedy drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Anne Shirley (Minter), whose orphan career has been a lively one due to her natural mischievousness, is sent by mistake to the home of Marilla Cuthbert (Harris) and her brother Matthew (Burton). The brother and sister had decided to adopt a boy to relieve their loneliness, but decide to keep Anne anyway. Her early youth is a series of misfortunes or "scrapes." During this time she meets Gilbert Blythe (Kelly) and their love for each other begins. When Anne has graduated from high school and is happily looking forward to college, Matthew dies and Marilla is struck blind. She takes a position in the village as a school teacher. Gilbert has taken up medicine during this time. Despite the ill luck that continues to follow her, Anne manages to save enough and pays for an operation that restores Marilla''s vision. Then she and Gilbert are married.'
'comedy','Lloyd is a serious young middle-class guy on the make, who wants to marry the boss’ daughter. The problem is getting in to see the boss so that he can ask for her hand in marriage; the office is guarded by a bunch of comic, clumsy flunkies who throw everyone out who tries to get in. When Lloyd gets into the boss’ office, the latter uses trap doors and conveyor belts to expel him; Lloyd then goes to the costume company next door, tries to get in wearing drag (no success), and then in medieval armor – that works, since he bangs everyone over the head with his club, but then he finds out that the daughter has eloped with another suitor. Lloyd decides to be sensible and he settles for the cute switchboard operator (Daniels) instead. The film includes a brief wall climbing sequence. Light-hearted, short, fast-paced.'
'short','Fatty, Keaton and St John play stagehands at a theater preparing the sets for the next big show. Fatty puts up a sign on the front door of the theater reading: YOU MUST NOT MISS GERTRUDE McSKINNY FAMOUS STAR WHO WILL PLAY THE LITTLE LAUNDRESS FIRST TIME HERE TOMORROW AT 2PM But upon returning inside the theatre he unwittingly leaves the door open so it obscures the left side of the sign and appears to read: MISS SKINNY WILL UNDRESS HERE AT 2PM The evening''s entertainment arrives, first an extremely flexible dancer whom Fatty and Keaton feebly attempt to mimic. Next, a tall and egotistical, strongman who badly mistreats his assistant (Mahone). The staff attempt to defend the assistant but the strongman is so powerful that he is able to blow Fatty away using only his breath and does not even flinch when Keaton repeatedly hits him over the head with an axe. Eventually the staff manage to subdue the strongman by challenging him to prove his immense strength by lifting a heavy weight then electrocuting him. That night the theater is completely full (due to the partially obscured sign) but due to his treatment earlier the strongman quits and takes the dancer with him forcing Fatty, Keaton and the assistant to plan an operetta, which they title "The Falling Reign", at short notice. Fatty and Keaton dress in drag and perform an elaborate dance act. The dancer who quit earlier is in the audience and frequently heckles the show but is soon dispatched when Keaton''s dancing proves to energetic and launches him into the audience knocking the dancer out. The second act is a routine in which Fatty and Keaton are being covered with fake snow but the theater is so hot that Keaton has to fan himself and take off his coat, ruining the illusion. Things are made worse when the man slowly releasing the fake snow accidentally drops the whole bag onto Fatty, and during a scene where Fatty is serenading the assistant who sits in the window of the facade of a house, Keaton accidentally bumps into it knocking it over and causing it to fall towards Fatty but the open window fits neatly around his body saving him from harm. Despite the show being a disaster, the audience nevertheless applaud and roar with laughter, believing the performers fumbles to be part of the act. The strongman, sitting in the audience, is outraged that his assistant is now a success. He produces a gun and shoots her before starting a brawl with the entire stage team. As Keaton and St John keep the strongman busy, Fatty loads a trunk full of weights and drops it on the strongman''s head, knocking him out. The short ends with Fatty visiting the assistant in the hospital who is recovering well.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] the plot of the film is as follows. A western Pennsylvania town has two hotels that have seen better days. Nancy Scroggs (Pitts) is the neglected daughter of Ezra Scroggs (McDonald), who is the chief reason no one visits his hotel, the Lakeview. A gambler and procrastinator, he has succeeded in diverting trade from himself to Si Whittaker (De Vaull), proprietor of the Majestic. Nancy, finally spurred into action by lines printed on a calendar, takes an ancient automobile used in the hotel''s glory days and takes a stand at the train depot. Her one and only passenger is Spike Macauley, champion pinch hitter for a baseball team, who partly for pity and partly for a lark accompanies the girl. Through Spike''s advertisement of the culinary department among the summer boarders of the Majestic, the later''s guests are soon transferred to Nancy''s care. A sudden telegram causes Spike to leave for the city, which leaves Nancy, who believes he has gone to see his sweetheart, sad. In the days that follow, tragedy hits when Ezra gambles away his life savings and the hotel and then commits suicide. Nancy, using the insurance money from her father, goes to boarding school. While there she writes pretend love letters to herself from a famous ball player whom she only knows as Peter, make believing to have a sweetheart. This leads to a distressing situation, not anticipated by Nancy, when she is entertained at a box party at a ball game with expectations that she will meet her "lover." However, when she looks and sees that Peter (Butler) and Spike are one and the same, and jumps onto the field with joy.'
'drama romance','A group of holiday-makers arrive at Cortina d''Ampezzo, an Alpine village in the Dolomites. Among them are an American Doctor who does not pay much attention to his wife and an Austrian Lieutenant, who decides to seduce her. He manages to befriend the couple so that, when the Doctor has to leave to help a local physician, he asks the Lieutenant to look after his wife. When the Lieutenant becomes too pressing, she promises to leave with him but asks him to give her more time. During the night, she puts a letter under the door of his bedroom. The Doctor goes on a climbing expedition with the Lieutenant, who had been bragging about his exploits as a mountaineer. In fact, he is not in very good shape and the Doctor must help him to reach the summit. In the process, the Doctor finds his wife''s letter in the pocket of the Lieutenant''s jacket, but before he can read it, the Lieutenant throws it away. He asks the Lieutenant whether his wife had promised to leave with him and the Lieutenant gives a positive answer. The Doctor decides to leave him on the summit and starts his descent, despite the Lieutenant now saying that he has been lying because he thought the Doctor would not believe the truth. On his way back, the Doctor finds his wife''s letter, in which she had written that she loved only her husband and asked the Lieutenant not to bother her any longer with his attentions. While pondering whether he should go back to get the Lieutenant, he loses his balance and falls down. When the Doctor is finally saved by soldiers, he asks them to go and help the Lieutenant. Before they can reach him, the Lieutenant, attacked by vultures, falls to his death from the precipice.[3]'
'drama','Barbara, a wealthy female socialite intent on reforming capitalism is lured into the Socialist cause by Herman, a Socialist agitator. Her concerned boyfriend Norman hears her lecture on the virtues of international socialism and is converted to her views. Prompted by Herman, she raises money among her wealthy friends to buy Paradise Island off the Florida coast to establish a collective colony, a society of "happiness and plenty." Norman tries to raise money from his father and is rebuffed. His father expects Norman will benefit from the experience: "He''ll get his island and a lesson along with it." When the wealthy colonists settled on their island, they elect Norman their "Chief Comrade." They quickly discover that none of them has any worthwhile skills. Most identify themselves as "assistant managers." Faced with disorganization, the colonists replace Norman with Herman, as the activist had long intended. He establishes a police force, abolishes marriage, and has the state assume ownership of the women and children. He imprisons Norman, which prompts Barbara''s epiphany: "The poor deluded people will starve and die as they are in Russia." She rejects Herman''s advances and Norman''s father arrives at the head of a Navy fleet to save the day. Norman lowers the Red flag and raises the American flag to general cheers.[3]'
'drama','Cheng Huan (Richard Barthelmess) leaves his native China because he "dreams to spread the gentle message of Buddha to the Anglo-Saxon lands." His idealism fades as he is faced with the brutal reality of London''s gritty inner-city. However, his mission is finally realized in his devotion to the "broken blossom" Lucy Burrows (Lillian Gish), the beautiful but unwanted and abused daughter of boxer Battling Burrows (Donald Crisp). After being beaten and discarded one evening by her raging father, Lucy finds sanctuary in Cheng''s home, the beautiful and exotic room above his shop. As Cheng nurses Lucy back to health, the two form a bond as two unwanted outcasts of society. All goes astray for them when Lucy''s father gets wind of his daughter''s whereabouts and in a drunken rage drags her back to their home to punish her. Fearing for her life, Lucy locks herself inside a closet to escape her contemptuous father. By the time Cheng arrives to rescue Lucy, whom he so innocently adores, it is too late. Lucy''s lifeless body lies on her modest bed as Battling has a drink in the other room. As Cheng gazes at Lucy''s youthful face which, in spite of the circumstances, beams with innocence and even the slightest hint of a smile, Battling enters the room to make his escape. The two stand for a long while, exchanging spiteful glances, until Battling lunges for Cheng with a hatchet, and Cheng retaliates by shooting Burrows repeatedly with his handgun. After returning to his home with Lucy''s body, Cheng builds a shrine to Buddha and takes his own life with a knife to the chest.'
'comedy','The film opens with a quick glimpse into the glamorous life of Broadway and the hubris often associated with its players. The film then shifts to the story of "The Girl" and "The Boy," she an aspiring actress and he an unpublished playwright. They are both humble artists struggling to make it big, and each are behind in their rent at a boarding house run by a stern landlady and a large, thuggish "bouncer." Having romantic feelings for the girl, the boy gives her all of his money so she can pay the back rent. Now penniless, the boy must find different ways to elude the landlady and bouncer. He finally escapes the menacing duo by hopping into a moving car. Later, the eager playwright sneaks into the theater where the girl works a chorus girl to try and sell his play to the manager. He is unsuccessful, and after being kicked out of the manager''s office, he''s physically thrown into the street. Meanwhile, the girl has been fired from the show, and as a consolation, accepts an offer from the handsome "Stage-door Johnnie" to accompany him to a posh nightclub. The couple, followed by the boy, arrive at the Sky Limit Club, an underground gambling establishment. While searching for the girl inside the club, the boy accidentally starts winning at roulette when he unwittingly places some found money on the table. Just as he bankrupts the casino, the place is raided by the police. After a series of chases and clever maneuvers, the boy is able to evade the police and is reunited with the girl. The film ends with the two engaged in a romantic kiss.[2][6]'
'drama','A police officer finds a baby in a trash can, and Mrs. Lippett, the cruel matron at an orphanage where children are made to work, names her "Jerusha Abbott" (she picks "Abbott" out of a phone book and gets "Jerusha" from a tombstone). The orphan, who comes to be called Judy, does what she can to stand up for the younger children, frequently clashing with both Mrs. Lippett and the cold hearted trustees. At one point she leads a rebellion against being served prunes with every meal and at another, steals a doll from a selfish rich girl to lend to a dying orphan. Years later, wealthy Jervis Pendleton, a mysterious benefactor, pays to send Judy, now the oldest and most talented child in the orphanage, to college. He insists, however, that Judy must never try to contact him in person. Judy calls him "Daddy-Long-Legs," and writes to him, however. Judy proves popular with her wealthier and more "aristocratic" classmates, and writes a successful book to repay "Daddy-Long-Legs" the money he spent on her. She is generally happy but misses not having any real family members to take pride in her accomplishments. Judy also finds herself caught up in a romantic triangle with the older brother of a classmate and an older man (who is, unknown to her, her mysterious benefactor). She eventually chooses the older suitor and is delighted to learn that he is her "Daddy-Long-Legs."'
'drama','The film tells the story of an attempted Russian infiltration of American industry, and includes a depiction of the "nationalization of women" under Bolshevism, including "extras on horseback, rounding up women, throwing them into dungeons and beating them."[3] College graduate John King (Hughes) is sympathetic to the left in a general way. Then he is seduced, both romantically and politically, by Sophia Guerni (Du Brey), a female agitator. Her superior is the Bolshevik Boris Blotchi (Richardson), who has a "wild dream of planting the scarlet seed of terrorism in American soil."[4] Sofia and Boris turn their attention to the Weston shipyards that are managed by John''s childhood sweetheart. The workers have valid grievances, but the Bolsheviks set out to manipulate the situation. They are "the dangerous element following in the wake of labor as riffraff and ghouls follow an army."[4] When they threaten John''s earlier love, he has an epiphany and renounces revolutionary doctrine.[4]'
'short','After an initial scene featuring a Ford which is extremely reluctant to start, most of the action takes place on an excursion ferry. Gags revolve around seasickness, which Charlie, an fat couple, and even the boat''s all-black ragtime band succumb to, deckchairs, and Charlie''s comic pugnacity. This is followed by a scene of the family returning home, and encountering trouble at an intersection, which involves a traffic cop, and hot tar.'
'comedy drama','Mary McGuire (Mae Murray) is a working-class young girl who lives in a New York tenement and supports her mother and her shiftless father and uncle. Two items in the March 27, 1919 edition of The New York Star catch her attention. The first is a news item about the famous dancer Gloria du Moine going into hiding over a scandal involving her relationship with the Duke de Sauterne. (This was Murray in a thinly disguised portrayal obviously mimicking fellow real life dancer/star Gaby Deslys who had an affair with the King of Portugal before World War I). The second is a classified ad for the Peach Tree Inn, a nightspot that aims to be the "snappiest roadhouse this side of Monte Carlo." The Peach Tree''s ad seeks a female hostess and dancer: "A Good Future For A Girl With A Past." Mary applies for the job. To help cinch the deal, Mary tells Peach Tree manager Larry McKean (William V. Mong) that she''s really Gloria du Moine. Larry asks her why she''s dressed so shabbily. Mary replies that her servant absconded with all of her clothing, leaving her to wear the servant''s clothes. Mary—or rather, Gloria—gets the job, and the Peach Tree Inn promotes its grand opening night, featuring Gloria du Moine. In the audience for Gloria du Moine''s Peach Tree opening night is Jimmy Calhoun (Rudolph Valentino), scion of the millionaire contractor Michael Calhoun (Edward Jobson). The young Calhoun meets Gloria and finds her enchanting. He tells his father he''d like to propose to her. Michael Calhoun arranges a small, private dinner party at the Peach Tree Inn in honor of Gloria. The elder Calhoun hopes that Gloria will make some sort of faux pas that will discourage his son from seeking her hand in marriage. Meanwhile, the Duke de Sauterne (Bertram Grassby) has arrived in New York from Europe and noted the press announcements touting Gloria du Moine''s performances at the Peach Tree Inn. The duke sets out to see her at the roadhouse, and his arrival coincides with Michael Calhoun''s dinner party. The duke is escorted into Calhoun''s private room. He gives no indication that Gloria du Moine is an imposter. At sunrise, the dinner party guests are still at the Peach Tree Inn, sleeping off the drinks they consumed during the evening. Gloria/Mary wakes up and hurries upstairs to her lavish private suite. The duke also wakes up and follows her, and Jimmy follows him. Jimmy and the duke get into a fight, and the duke sends Jimmy tumbling down the staircase. Mary runs outside, gets into a car and heads for her family''s tenement apartment in New York City. The duke and Jimmy follow her separately in their own cars. The duke arrives first, follows Mary up the stairs to the apartment and forces his way in. He grabs Mary and tries to kiss her. Jimmy arrives and engages the duke in another fight. A detective arrives and apprehends the duke for deportation to Europe on accusations of being a swindler. Jimmy''s father arrives, notes Mary''s humble surroundings and grants his blessing for Jimmy to marry her.'
'comedy','Based upon a description in a film magazine,[5] Leila Porter (Swanson) has grown tired of her husband James Denby Porter (Dexter), the glue king, as she is romantic but he is prosaic. Moreover, he is careless of his personal appearance, gets cigar ash in the carpet, and eats green onions before he tries to kiss her. She obtains a divorce and then marries James'' friend Schuyler Van Sutphen (Cody), but discovers that Van Sutphen is a real beast. When she later discovers that her ex-husband has changed as a result of the divorce, still loves her, and would be happy to have her back, Leila divorces once again in order to remarry James.'
'drama','Cabaret singer Olive Martin (played by Baird) approaches her former lover Peter Graham (Richman), just recently elevated to the Supreme Court, about the fact that he is the father of her out-of-wedlock son. To avoid exposing this scandal, Olive demands that Peter divorce his wife (played by Shotwell) and marry her. Meanwhile, the alleged son, Harold (played by Jack McLean) is falling in love in Boston with Anita (Pearl Shepherd)—who is Peter''s daughter with his wife. News of their engagement and impending incestuous marriage requires Peter to divulge what he knows and forbid the marriage. In typical Abramson fashion, however, it is revealed that Olive has lied about Harold being her son—instead he is the son of Olive''s brother-in-law merely being used by Olive for blackmail! Peter''s plan to commit suicide is successfully stopped, and the wedding free to proceed.[3][4]'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] Blue Jean Billie (Dean), a prosperous young woman crook who lives apart from the denizens of the underworld, has pulled off many robberies of the high society world with the help of her pal Shaver Michael (De Grasse). Billie gains admission to the Vanderhoof dinner at which the engagement of their daughter to Lord Chesterton (Hall) will be announced. While the dinner is in progress, Billie gags and handcuffs special officer Detective Wood (Ross), and proceeds to make a wholesale robbery of the guests. She flees in an automobile and none succeed in tracking her save Lord Chesterton. She makes a prisoner of him, but a police raid follows and she must flee. Once more Lord Chesterton succeeds in following her and again she makes him her prisoner, but she learns to trust and love him. The special agent and Shaver Michael arrive at the scene with resulting complications, but a happy end results for all.'
'drama','During World War I, a professional thief known as The Lone Wolf (Henry B. Walthall) is assigned to steal a cylinder with important information from behind the German lines and bring it to Allied intelligence headquarters. However, German agents set out to stop him, headed by the dreaded Eckstrom (Lon Chaney), the man who was responsible for slaughtering the Lone Wolf''s sister and her family.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Dr. Edward Meade (Dexter) and his close friend Richard Burton (Forman) are rivals for the hand of Sylvia Norcross (Swanson), but both men have volunteered to fight in the war. Although Sylvia favors Dr. Meade, she is proud of both of them. As Edward is putting on his uniform, the head of the children''s hospital where he works comes to him and convinces him that his true duty lies there, where his surgeon''s skill is most needed. Edward resigns his commission, and Sylvia, disgusted as what she perceives as cowardice, marries Richard the day he is leaving with his regiment for Europe. Richard conceals his hurt and devotes himself to the hospital. Betty Hoyt (Hawley), a friend of Sylvia, also hides her disappointment as she had feelings for Richard. Sylvia uses her time to aid poor families on New York''s Lower East Side, and coming home one night runs down a little girl (Giraci) with her car, who turns out to be an orphan as her father had died at the front in Europe. Sylvia takes the child to recuperate in her home, and learns the child may never walk again. Seeking out the best surgeon, Sylvia finds the only one who has not gone to fight is Dr. Meade. Edward consents and does his best for the child. Meanwhile, Richard at the front line calmly faces possible death. He is wounded in battle, and finds that he has lost his right hand and severely injured the left side of his face. He then asks a friend to tell his wife that he had been killed in battle. Back in New York, Sylvia has come to better understand Edward''s character as he cares for the orphan. When news of Richard''s death comes, she turns to Edward, the man she has always loved. Betty accuses her of loving Edward, and she cannot deny it. After waiting a suitable amount of time, Edward asks Sylvia to marry him, and she consents. On the day the engagement is to be announced, Richard returns home, having received a new prosthetic hand and some work to his face. The guests hail Richard as a hero while Edward, facing the situation, quietly leaves. Sylvia tries to take up her life with Richard again, and when they are alone, Richard is beaming with joy but she cannot hide her aversion to his wounds. Quick to understand, Richard bitterly reproaches her and leaves. Meeting Betty in the hall, he tells her what happened, and she happily says that she can take Sylvia''s place. Richard accepts this as he embraces her. Sylvia goes to see Edward at his home and finds him in his chair with the orphan on his lap. She says that she tried to stay with Richard, but her love for Edward was too strong. Richard, who followed Sylvia, arrives, and there ensues a conversation that results in peace and contentment for the four parties instead of ruined lives.'
'comedy','A young woman stands to inherit a fortune, but a crooked lawyer deliberately does not tell her she must prove her claim before midnight. If she fails, the inheritance will go to her foster brother. As further insurance, the lawyer hires a man and his gang to kidnap her. Meanwhile, a penniless young man and an unrelated child (the waif) are both hungry. The waif''s dog brings them some money (taken from a crap game), so they purchase some food. When the money turns out to be counterfeit, the man tries to flee, but is finally caught by a policeman. The heiress happens to be driving by. She generously pays for the food, and the young man is allowed to go his way. Later, he gets into trouble with the police again, this time over a wallet filled with money lying on the sidewalk. To escape, he hitches a ride on a passing car, which is carrying the kidnappers. The crooks decide to use the man as a scapegoat in their crime. They capture the woman (who thinks the man is a kidnapper too) and take her to their lair. Unable to stop them, he follows them to their hideout and overhears the lawyer explaining the situation. The man then tries to alert several policemen, but they just brush him off. He finally provokes them into chasing him and leads them to the crooks. During the ensuing melee, he and the woman get away. He takes her to the lawyer''s office just in time to sign a document and secure her inheritance.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] younger son James "Jim" Grey (Harron) seeks to evade the draft for World War I and continue his adoration of cabaret singer Cutie Beautiful (Seymour), while older brother Ralph (Barthelmess) enlists and goes to France, where lives his sweetheart Atoline "Blossom" Le France (Dempster). The draft catches Jim and training makes a man out of him. When he is sent to France, Cutie promises to remain faithful. Monsieur Le France (Lestina), Blossom''s father, is a Confederate from the American Civil War who now lives in France. The two brothers meet in the trenches. When Ralph and his patrol are caught in a shell hole behind German lines, Jim comes to the rescue. Blossom is threatened by a German officer, who is shot by another German soldier that she befriended. After additional adventures, the brothers return to their sweethearts, and Monsieur France swears allegiance to the American flag.'
'drama','A gang of men frame Harvey Hanford (Houdini) for murder, and also decide to kidnap his fiancée. Hanford is quickly apprehended by the police and falsely imprisoned for the crime. Shortly afterward, Hanford escapes and pursues the men who framed him. The film unfolds as a series of Houdini''s trademark set-piece stunts and escapes; his tormentors chain him up and imprison him on numerous occasions, only for Hanford to escape. The film concludes with a climactic mid-air collision following an aeroplane pursuit. Following the collision, Hanford is reunited with his fiancée.'
'western','As described in a film magazine,[2] ranch owner Cheyenne Harry (Carey) is the victim of a plot engineered by land speculator John Merritt (Sherry), who uses a doctored title to deprive Harry of his land holdings. Powerless in the face of his opponent''s superior knowledge of the law, Harry is forced to retaliate by appropriating Merritt''s payroll. Later he abducts Merritt''s daughter Helen (O''Connor) and holds her pending settlement of their dispute. A settlement is effected in due time, but not before Harry has won the heart of the young woman.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[2] Jim Montjoy (MacLean), who is engaged to Millicent Lee (Bennett), gowes with his brother Jim (Cooley) to Mexico to make their fortunes. Jim falls in love with a Mexican girl, Diana Ramon (Vale), and a photograph of her gets into Jim''s coat pocket. The brothers own a mining claim that Diana''s uncle (French) wants to buy, so Jim stays in Mexico to look after the property while Stanley goes to New York to try to obtain a better price. There he discovers Bob Davis (McCullough) is trying to cut him out, so he marries Millicent without delay. As a joke he buys his wife a book titled How to be Happy Though Married, but it ends up giving her jealous thoughts. She finds the photograph of Diana in Stanley''s coat pocket and pretends to go away on a visit, but when she returns to the house she finds her husband escorting the original from the photograph and installing her in one of the bedrooms. Jim, having eloped with his Mexican charmer, is back in town and left to buy new clothes, and Jim then leaves without knowing his wife is in the house. The women meet, and although neither can understand the other''s language, they get into an argument. Blond Millicent thinks the handsome brunette is trying to steal her husband, while Diana thinks that her sister-in-law is attempting to rob her of her jewels. All is resolved when the men return.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] New York reporter Betsy Thorne (Bennett) travels to the railroad station in a Southern state to investigate a missing man where she overhears a conversation between the sheriff and an imported detective that reporters are barred from the house and grounds where the mystery has taken place. By good fortune she comes across a maid sent to the house from Richmond, and so frightens her that she gains a chance to act in her place. She finds an extraordinary set of affairs at the house, and during the first night is nearly terrified out of her senses when, hiding in the chapel, she sees a ghostly figure come from the grand organ. The house is roused by her screams as she flees the room, and she is forbidden from going back there by the sister of the missing man. During the following night she is locked in her room during a thunderstorm, and while escaping through a window sees the ghostly figure again in the family graveyard. She enlists the aid of an old black man and, both badly scared, make an investigation which starts from a particular chord played at the grand organ. They find that certain keys cause a secret door in the organ to open, revealing a secret passage to a family tomb. There she discovers two expert crooks and solves a mystery that has baffled the detectives, laying bare the scheme to extort a young man accused of the crime whom she has become deeply interested.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[6] Anthony Hawthorne (Reid), an American with modern ideas, stirs fashionable Europe when he breads the bank at Monte Carlo. Prince Vladimir (Stevens), a covetous member of the royal family of a small principality, makes an attempt to obtain the fund Hawthorne has on in order to purchase the army of Augustus III (Brower), whom he seeks to depose. Hawthorne joins the prince in his plot but changes his mind when he meets Princess Irma (Lee) and learns that the prince plans to murder her father. Hawthorne works to foil the plot of the prince and ends up establishing a republican form of government and marrying Irma.'
'drama','Jason Honeycutt (Harold Goodwin) is a young boy who lives with his stepfather chief Steve Honeycutt (Sam De Grasse) at the ancestral Honeycutts'' home. One day the chief is looking for the 13-year-old mountain girl Mavis Hawn (Mary Pickford), who is shooting bullets in the woods. Mavis desires revenge after a few gang members attacked her home and shot and killed her father. One of her only friends is geologist and school teacher John Burnham (Fred Warren). He suggests she get an education instead of learning to use a gun. Chief Honeycutt visits Mavis'' widowed mother Martha Hawn (Claire McDowell) and flirts with her. Meanwhile, Mavis is fishing at a pond near her home with Jason. He reveals his stepfather is manipulating Martha into granting him her land. When a group of planters and capitalists come to town intending to exploit mountain coal lands, Mavis scares them away with her gun. She and Jason later run into the rich aristocrat Gray Pendleton (John Gilbert) and his sweetheart Marjorie Lee (Betty Bouton), who are looking for the town. Back at home, Mavis is disappointed Steve is still there. Later that night, Mavis visits a party and meets Gray for the second time. He flirts with her, which makes Jason jealous. Gray forces himself up to Mavis, which makes her upset and angry. She leaves the party and finds out her mother has left her to marry Steve. She decides to marry as well and proposes to Jason. However, they soon find out they are too young. When word hits town that a man named Morton Sanders (Henry Hebert) is planning to take over the city, some of the inhabitants, including Mavis, threaten him to force him go away. Later that night, Morton is found dead and the police are looking for everyone who was involved. The police visits the Hawn house, but Mavis'' grandfather (Fred Huntley) forces them to go away. While holding them off with his shotgun, Mavis packs her things and goes to hide in the forest. The next day, John Burnham visits her and convinces her to go to trial to prove her innocence. In court, the lawyer of the other party demands for her to be hanged. The town folks try to defend her by all admitting they have shot Morton. Mavis is discharged and finally decides to go to school. Mr. Burnham, Gray and Marjorie are all pleased with Mavis'' decision. Jason however, becomes jealous again when she starts hanging out with Gray at school and leaves her. Six years pass. Mavis has been adopted by the rich Colonel Pendleton (W.H. Bainbridge). One day she receives a letter from her mother, announcing she is getting old and will most likely die soon. She decides to visit her mother and finds out Steve killed her father. He has become violent and takes it out on Martha. Mavis tries to help her and shoots Steve. Martha survives the incident and takes Mavis in to live with her. Mavis is reunited with a grown-up Jason and they marry.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[4] Bill (Fairbanks), whose hair raising antics have made him the talk of New York City, decides to leave the metropolis after a new district attorney starts cracking down on minor offenses, and visits Mexico in search of adventure. He receives a telegram for a foreign country asking him to come at once to its capital. At the train station he is met by a mysterious stranger and told he will be summoned when the time is right. A rebellion is brewing and the plotters seek to capture him, but Bill eludes them. The King (Southern) gathers his court around him while the rabble, headed by the traitorous Minister of War, storm the castle. Bill dons the uniform of an army officer and goes to an outlying garrison, and returns to the capital with the troops and restores quiet. The King presents Bill as heir apparent and future ruler of the country. Bill''s romance with a pretty member of the court is allowed to progress to the altar.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] Laura Dayne (Bennett), an ambitious young sculptress courted by neighboring young artist Denis Connors (Welch), has limited contact with the social world and knows little of the "law of men" and so unsuspicious when decadent architect Jamison Keene (MacDonald) lures her to the Tarrytown Inn one night with a promise to consummate her dream of having her work in a municipal building. Keene had recently had the artist paint a miniature of Mildred Wade (Matthews), the foolish wife of Laura''s dear friend Benton Wade (Robson). Laura goes to the Tarrytown Inn and into the trap set for her. Keene uses all of his disarming wiles in vain as Laura puts up such a struggle that the Inn management forces Keene to release her. Overwhelmed by the sense of her own folly, she goes to the artist and tells her story. In fury Denis goes to the Inn, but is ejected by the house detectives for using threatening language. He returns to his rooms and suggests marriage as the only way to protect Laura. She accepts, and just after the ceremony Denis is arrested for the murder of Keene. At the trial Benton Wade, motivated also by his hatred of the spoiler of his own home, makes an impassioned defense of the innocent young man, but fails. Benton then becomes a victim of fear as Laura traces step by step his guilt for the crime and confronts him with the evidence. At the sentencing hearing Benton confesses his guilt and then drinks poison, leaving the young artist and his devoted wife whose intelligence saved him.'
'crime drama','A poor girl named Nancy (Olive Thomas) leaves to take care of her two younger sisters, Sadie (Ann Forrest) and Jane (Dolly Dare), while their father (Walter Perry), who is a former criminal, is sent to prison for a crime which he has not committed and dies there. At that time Jonathan Twist, a quaint philosopher and their somewhat mysterious neighbor who operates a watch repair shop and part-time fence, offers them help, and Nancy finds with his help a job as a seller of Cocoa Climax. Nancy marries with a British business man and peer Lord Cleveland, and she becomes Lady Cleveland. However, Lord Clevelend dies very soon without a will and . Nancy does not have enough income to keep up the estates of Lord Cleveland in England, which pass to his other relatives, but receives the palatial home in America. She manages to keep this home and its servants without any visible means of support, and during this time the activities of a crook called by the police "The Bird" is mystifying the authorities. On the night of a reception at her house there is a large diamond theft, and Jim Garside is detailed to catch The Bird. Jim discovers that Nancy is The Bird and Jonathan is her fence for the jewels she has taken, where much of the moneys have gone to the poor. Jim maintains her works for charity while she serves out her prison term, and in the end they are married.'
'adventure','The film centers on the relationship between Lady Mary Loam (Swanson), a British aristocrat, and her butler, Crichton (Meighan). Crichton fancies a romance with Mary, but she disdains him because of his lower social class. When the two and some others are shipwrecked on a deserted island, they are left to fend for themselves in a state of nature. The aristocrats'' abilities to survive are far worse than those of Crichton, and a role reversal ensues, with the butler becoming a king among the stranded group. Crichton and Mary are about to wed on the island when the group is rescued. Upon returning to Britain, Crichton chooses not to marry Mary; instead, he asks a maid, Tweeny (who was attracted to Crichton throughout the film), to marry him, and the two move to the United States.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] wealthy clubman Roger Carr (Farnum) assumes responsibility for a murder for which he believes his sister is guilty. He serves his sentence and returns home only to find that his father will not accept him back as he has besmirched the family name. His sister has entered a convent. He goes west and engages in his profession, mining engineer, soon becoming the leader of the independent miner operators against trust persecution. Here he meets and learns to love a western girl that works as his stenographer. When success is about to crown his efforts, his antagonists discover his prison record and use it against him. Then his sister appears with a signed confession of a butler, formerly in their employ, who told the truth of the murder on his dying bed. This results in a happy ending.'
'drama','The film takes place in a small, New England town in 1919 (the Broadway play 1914), where a group of con men plan to use a faith healer to collect money. In New York City''s Chinatown, four crooks conspire to swindle a small New England town. The gang consists of Tom Burke (Thomas Meighan), the head of the group; Rose (Betty Compson), a con artist posing as a street walker; "The Dope" (J.M. Dumont), who pretends to pimp Rose; and The Frog (Lon Chaney), a contortionist. The plan is clear: in a small town outside of Boston there is a Patriarch (Joseph Dowling) who has been healing people. The group heads to the town and plans to use the Patriarch in a faith healing scheme. When the townspeople gather to see the Patriarch heal the sick, the Frog is there, posing as a cripple. As he crawls to the path of the man, his limbs become straightened and soon he walks to the Patriarch, supposedly healed. Unexpectedly, a crippled boy, his faith in the Patriarch overpowering him, loses his crutches and runs to the Patriarch. The story spreads across the country (mostly on account of Burke), and people flock in from all over to visit the Patriarch and be healed. When a millionaire, Richard King (W. Lawson Butt), brings his sister to be healed, he gives Burke $50,000 after the Patriarch cures her. During this visit, King meets Rose, and the two fall in love. Meanwhile, all is not well with Burke. One by one, he sees his gang disbanding because, unbeknownst to him, the healing power of the Patriarch is at work. The Dope gives up his drug addiction, The Frog gives up his life of crime and takes care of a widow left all alone, and Rose laments King''s departure. Burke becomes jealous, but when King returns to propose his marriage to Rose, she realizes that she loves Burke. The Patriarch dies, and the two lovers begin anew.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[5] Clive (Standing), the younger brother of the Duke of Cheshire, is greatly relieved when the Duke marries an American woman of wealth. He then feels at liberty to pursue his conquest of the Duchess of Cheshire (Davenport), whose husband''s brutality has led the Lady to seek companionship elsewhere. However, the untimely death of the Duke and Duchess throw upon his shoulders the responsibilities of the title and estate. Consequently, he becomes engaged to Cornelia Kirby, an American heiress, and looks forward to a life spent in fulfillment of duty. then a man from America arrives and claims Cornelia as his own. The death of the Duke of Cheshire leaves the way open for Clive to marry his widow and find happiness.'
'mystery','As described in a film magazine,[4] a jeweled garter with an interesting history disappears under mysterious circumstances from the British Museum. The Hawk, a criminal who has never been apprehended even though he obligingly leaves many clues for the police to follow, is suspected. Helen Hamilton (Breamer), daughter of a wealthy American, loses her jewels after throwing them out of a window at Keats Gaunt (Craig), a poet she imagines she is in love with. A tiff with Gaunt follows and she dives into the sea, being rescued by a strange gentleman in a yacht who gives his name as Bruce Calhoun (Standing). English detectives suspect him of the robbery and watch him closely. He goes to Helen''s home and becomes acquainted with her family, but his mysterious actions raise doubts in the minds of all save Helen, who now loves him. Not even to her, however, will he admit his part in the mysterious proceedings that are occurring continuously until, by a master stroke, he catches the criminal, a rival for Helen''s affections, and then reveals that he is an American secret service man and worthy of her love.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[1] Jules Leneau (Lewis) and his wife Jane (Maye), living in a cabin in the Northwoods, are inconsolable after the death of their infant son. Through the wicked scheme of Red Adair (Eason) and his partner, trappers who live below the Leneaus, a child from the city is kidnapped and brought to the woods. The child wanders away and falls into a bear trap set by Jules, who discovers him there. The child is adopted by Jules and his wife and, because of her joy, he does not try to discover where the child is from. Red Adair makes several attempts to recover the child, and as a result Jules learns where the child belongs, and resolves to give him up despite Jane''s pleadings. She is about to cast herself from a cliff when the story is brought to a happy and unexpected ending.'
'comedy','A young man (Fay) goes out to eat breakfeast with his friend (Harrison). As a restaurant "regular" with a pistol threatens to eat everyone''s bacon, the two friends flee.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[5] novelest Harrison Wade (Meighan) goes with his fiancee and a wealthy rouge to a resort where wine and women are to be held for the asking. Disgusted with his fiance''s flirtations, he meets Jo (Talmadge), an orphan kept captive, and gives her money to escape. She fails in her attempt and is later sent to a reformatory, from which she escapes and makes her way to the city. To save her from recapture, Wade marries her, promising to divorce her when her probation is over. His former fiance, now married to the millionaire, continues to take Wade, whom she really loves, around with her. Wades best friend Huntley McMerton (Francis) persuades Jo to appear with him at various cafes in order to get Wade to declare that he loves her. This Wade is finally forced to do, and they then explain their scheme to him and the couple lives happily.'
'drama','According to a contemporary New York Times article, the first half of the film shows "Armenia as it was before Turkish and German devastation, and led up to the deportation of priests and thousands of families into the desert. One of the concluding scenes showed young Armenian women flogged for their refusal to enter Turkish harems and depicted the Turkish slave markets."[2] The story was adapted for the screen by Henry Leyford Gates, who also wrote the book.[3]'
'romance','As described in a film magazine,[3] "Toodles" Walden (Reid), an automobile salesman who works for a sporty old automobile distributor J. D. Ward (Roberts), has racing ambitions and is in love with Ward''s daughter Dorothy (Little). The old man does not propose to give her up for five years and overreaches in an attempt to stimulate the young man with feigned complaints. They part company, but Ward is in despair when three racing machines are damaged in a train wreck. Toodles buys the wreckage and assembles one complete car with the aid of his mechanic. With this car Toodles wins an important race, then holds up Ward for an increase in pay. There are just a few days left for a record to be broken between Los Angeles and San Francisco, and after Toodles is arrested for speeding, Ward has him released as part of his plot to break this record. Ward kidnaps his own daughter, and Toodles comes to the rescue and breaks the record, and also wins Dorothy.'
'crime drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] Jules Marin (Williams), a Paris thief so clever that the police cannot catch him, has been decorated with the Croix de guerre and loves children. He is popular with the underworld and people warn him when the police are coming. He makes an Apache jealous, and this man tells the prefect of police Henri Duval (Shaw) that Marin will be at a particular restaurant. However, Marin is told that one of his adopted orphan, whom he has picked out among the refugees, is sick, and leaves, thus saves himself. On the way to the orphan his car breaks down, and he goes to the home of jeweler Anton Deprenay (Standing) to get a car. The daughter Mme. Helen (Adams) is there alone and, believing that he is on a mission of mercy, lets him use the car, with him leaving his military decoration as collateral. The police later follow and take down the number of the car. When the prefect goes to the Deprenays, the car has been returned. Later, at a party, Marin is introduced to Helen as M. Picard, but she recognizes his voice. Marin recognizes a crooked promoter at the party. A necklace is stolen, and Helen suspects Marin, but he proves his innocence and recovers the gems. Helen tells him that when he gets as good a recognition from society as he obtained in the field of battle, she will be his friend. Marin learns that the promoter has a stock market scheme to swindle the community out of millions, so, while posing as an investigator from Scotland Yard, Marin helps the prefect get the money back. He and Helen ride off in an automobile.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] the senior John L. Logan (Fawcett) and his wife (Bruce) are very religious, and are taken aback when John Jr. (Harron) announces that he plans to leave their Southern farm and go to New York City to get rich. They take him to church and pray until he accepts religion. His sweetheart Jennie Timberlake (Gish) is afraid that he will backslide, which he does when the lure of the city becomes too strong for him. He is gone seven years and returns a rich man, but is not recognized when he returns home, which is now taking in boarders. Meanwhile, his father has fallen on hard times and is trying to get money to pay the farm''s mortgage, and plans to murder the stranger staying at his home, not realizing it is his son. In town, there is a bank robbery and the robber is chased to the Logan farm. The mother sees that her son has returned home, and the father''s remorse ends only as the family is once more together. It is then revealed that it was the bank robber that had been shot by the father. The faithful Jennie and John Jr. end up together at the end.'
'drama','Silent film femme fatale, Louise Glaum, portrays the role of Mignon, a Parisian music hall celebrity. Mignon marries a young American civil engineer, John Stanley, portrayed by Matt Moore. Stanley is transferred to Egypt to work on an engineering project in the Sahara. Mignon and her son, portrayed by Pat Moore, join Stanley in the desert.[3][4] Unhappy with life in the desert, Mignon leaves Stanley and her son in the desert and moves to Cairo with the wealthy Baron Alexis, portrayed by Edwin Stevens. Mignon lives in Baron Alexis'' palace while Stanley goes blind and becomes addicted to the drug hasheesh. Mignon later encounters Stanley and her son, who have become beggars in the streets of Cairo.[3][4] Mignon returns to the desert to care for her husband, and the two are reconciled.'
'western','As described in a film magazine,[5] Rosie Nell (Besserer), a woman of dance halls in early lawless California, is wrongly charged with the murder of one of her fellow entertainers. Because her daughter (Dempster), who knows nothing of her mother''s station in life, is to return the next day from her school in the east, Rosie is granted three days of grace to be spent in company with her daughter at a nearby cabin. The three days pass happily, but King Bagley (Long), manager of the dance hall, has seen the daughter and determined to make her his own. The women barricade themselves in the cabin to resist capture and Alvarez (Barthelmess), a young outlaw with considerable local prestige, comes to their assistance. John Randolph (Graves), who also loves the young woman, joins the fight on their side, which ends with the timely arrival of the Sheriff (Fawcett). This results in a happy ending.'
'drama','Based upon a plot summary included in a film review in a film publication,[2] Nora (Ferguson) is an American heiress who is courted by Lord Bissett (Gamble) while visiting England. She overhears Bissett discussing with his sister the need of Nora''s money to replenish his fortune, so she leaves him and moves into a nearby cottage. A successful playwright Sir Howard Furnival (Stephenson) assists her in preparing a play based upon a novel she has written, but keeps this secret from his wife Doris (Dean), who is very jealous. Bissett obtains a page of the manuscript in Nora''s handwriting with enduring terms, and gives it to Doris, telling her that it is a love letter to her husband. This leads to the deaths of both Furnivals, and Nora is blamed and ostracized. Nora changes her name and goes to Venice, where she meets and becomes engaged to English army officer Sir Ralph Newell (Carleton). Before their marriage she confesses who she is in a letter that he never receives. Upon return to England, she discovers that her husband is the brother of Doris and has cursed the woman who caused his sister''s death. Bissett reveals to Newell who Nora is. In the end after more melodrama, the lovers are reunited in Venice.'
'adventure','Robert Clay, a noble America hero of humble means trying to do his best to help the war effort in the fictional capital Olancho in a small South American republic, but he meets a rich lady and they fall in love during the revolution. Robert Clay is the engineer and general manager of the Valencia Mining Company in Olancho. There are two sisters that come into Robert Clay''s life. Both are the daughters of Mr. Langham, the president of the Mining company. The older sister, Alice, is a New York City society girl. Her sister Hope is enthusiastic, generous and sweet. Robert Clay meets Alice just before he sails for South America. He shares his admiration for her. Later, when he learns the family are going to Olancho also, he is very happy. But after getting to know Alice better he is sad. During her visit to Olancho a revolution starts, in this time she shows courage and to be a lady of charter. This attracts Clay to her, he ask her to marry him.[3][4][5]'
'comedy','Charlie works on a farm from 4 a.m. to late at night at the run-down Evergreen Hotel in the rural village of Sunnyside. He has endless duties inside the hotel as well as farm chores. Chaplin''s boss is the local preacher who mistreats him badly. He gets his food and the boss'' on the run (milking a cow into his coffee, holding an chicken over the frying pan to get fried eggs). Charlie''s love interest in the village is the girl played by Edna Purviance. He loves her, but is disliked by her father. One day, while leading some cattle, a steer escapes into the church. Charlie tries to ride it out of harm''s way, but instead is tossed off a small bridge. Unconscious, he dreams of an encounter with four beautiful nymphs who dance with him. Back in reality a city slicker is hurt in a car crash and is being cared for by Edna. He appears to have an eye for Edna too. Chaplin tries to win her back by dressing as the city man does--but his homemade spats only prompt ridicule. When Charlie is rejected after attempting to imitate the slicker, he appears to be preparing to commit suicide. However, the result is ambiguous with the film either having a tragic or a happy ending. Critics have long argued as to whether the final scene is real or a dream.'
'drama','Martin Wingrave(Barrymore) is arrested and sent to prison for seven years for a crime he didn''t commit. While incarcerated he learns that his girlfriend and her male accomplice framed him for the crime. When Wingrave is released he plots revenge against his former girl and her man(Manon, Schable). However he begins a romance with his neighbor, a young woman(Binney) who truly loves him and warms his heart.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] "True Heart Susie" (Gish) lives with her aunt (O''Connor) and loves stupid William Jenkins (Harron). Her love is so great that she sacrifices the family cow, a pet of hers, and other farm produce so that he can go to college, but the benefaction is a secret one, and he finishes his theological studies without suspecting that she aided him. He has impressed her that she must dress as plainly as possible, and she is so attired when she goes with him for a "sody" on his triumphant return from college, but his eyes wander to girls giving a more attractive expression of themselves. After he becomes a minister, he cruelly consults Susie about the policy of taking a wife, and almost breaks her heart when he weds gay Bettina "Betty" Hopkins (Seymour), expecting his bride to adopt herself to his colorless life. The young wife fails to satisfy her husband with her cooking, with William finding the dishes Susie makes more to his taste. He begins to regret his marriage, and so does his wife, who escapes the monotony of her marriage by attending a dance at a neighboring house. After she loses her key and gets caught in the rain on the way home, Betty appeals to Susie, who shields her from the consequences as far as the minister is concerned. However, Betty''s fright and her soaking bring on a fatal sickness, and it is after her death that her husband learns of her escapade. Although he swears never to marry again, he finds that True Heart Susie has given the one opportunity of his life, and he returns to her with the offering of his hand in marriage.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] Paul Perry (Hughes), the son of wealthy iron manufacturer Hamilton Perry (Nichols), openly loves the younger daughter of Reverend Matthew Barker (Hall), while the older daughter, who is more practical, secretly loves him. The young couple get married, and a child is born a year later but the mother dies. Almost insane with grief, the husband reproaches the clergyman for having preached a doctrine of a God who inflicts His children with sorrow. Unable to reconcile himself with his sorrow, he leaves for the slums of Chicago and searches for the truth in connection with the purpose of God. Meanwhile, his son Bob (Alexander) is cared for by the wife''s sister. Paul decides to leave Chicago on a freight train, and returns to his home town and spends the night in his father''s barn. The next morning Bob, who has spent the night with his grandfather, goes out to the barn to feed some puppies and discovers the sleeping man in the hay. They talk, and Paul''s sister-in-law comes to the barn and recognizes him, while Paul discovers that the child is his. There is also a subplot involving a feud between the wealthy iron manufacturer and his workers.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] Gudrun Trygavson (MacLaren) is a beautiful Swedish girl living in the American wheat country where she is employed as a "hired girl" by Mrs. Hawes (Titus). Charley Holt (Butler), son from one of the best families in Mullinsdale, cares for Gudrun and asks her to a dance. When Mrs. Hawes informs Charley''s mother and sister of this, at the dance the sister cuts in to separate Charley from Gudrun. Charley becomes determined to marry Gudrun, but after they are wed his snobbish relatives cut them off. Charley gets a menial job as a mill worker, and Gudrun and he try to make the best of things, but their life is miserable due to Charley''s drinking. A child is born to them, but after five years of hard drinking, Charley is fatally injured in a saloon fight, circumstances which distress Gudrun. Gudrun takes up a small farm with a cabin on it, and works the wheat fields to support her and her child. A "bird of passage" named Martin O''Neill (Hall) comes to the farm, and Gudrun feeds him. In return, he assists in the work and helps bring in the harvest, and when the barn catches fire, saves Gudrun and her child. Martin is suspected of starting the fire, and narrowly survives an attempted lynching by the excited townspeople. It is then discovered that the fire was started by a jealous rival. Gudrun and Martin are later wed.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] Dick Armitage (Hughes), essentially honest but weak, steals a small sum from his employer, Walter Haskell (Conklin), but confesses the theft prior to its discovery in hopes of leniency. Haskell asks him to sign a confession and gives him three days to raise the money, meanwhile discharging him. Dick is unable to raise the sum so his sister Shirley (Bennett) enters Haskell''s employ as a stenographer to pay back the debt. Haskell becomes enamored of her and allows her marked attentions, to the dismay of Bobby Baker (Welch), also in Haskell''s employ and Shirley''s sweetheart. Matters reach a climax when Haskell attempts certain familiarities and is rebuffed. He then threatens the arrest of Dick unless Shirley bends to his will. She returns to the office at night to steal Dick''s confession and is caught by Haskell. Mrs. Haskell (Matthews) has detectives watching her husband and they bring her to the scene. A woman who had lived upon Haskell''s bounty also appears. The next morning Haskell is found dead in his office. Dick believes his sister is guilty and unsuccessfully attempts to take the blame. Mrs. Haskell arrives at the police headquarters and vindicates Shirley. The police later locate the murderess with happiness then following Dick, Shirley, and Bobbie.'
'drama','Based upon a plot summary in a newspaper,[3] Amy (Bennett) is married to a cad but visits another man who loves her and helps her endure her marriage. After a confrontation and struggle between the men which leads to a death, Amy stands accused of the murder.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[3] Daniel Boone Brown (Fairbanks), a superstitious but ambitious young New Yorker, is the victim of demented psychiatrist Dr. Ulrich Metz (Grimwood) who, with the aid of numberless associates serving him in the interests of science, arranges circumstances intended to lead Daniel to suicide. In the midst of a series of bewildering misfortunes apparently emanating from broken mirrors, black cats, and similar sources, Daniel meets Greenwich Village artist Lucette Bancroft (Clifford), and mutual love results. A Westerner who owns land in partnership with Lucette''s uncle comes to the city and plot''s with Daniel''s uncle Curtis (Lewis) to defraud his partner. Daniel, after being driven to the verge of suicide by the scientist and his aides, is saved when it is discovered that Dr. Metz is insane. Daniel then follows the Westerner, who has convinced Lucette to return to the west with him, when a flood engulfs the train they are riding on. Daniel brings about a happy resolution.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Lord Angus Cameron (played by Herbert) of the White Heather country finds himself seriously embarrassed financially during a stock exchange panic and goes to Donald Cameron (Alexander) on his country estate for a loan. Donald refuses because Angus will not contract a favorable marriage with one of his class. With ruin facing him, Angus decides to rid himself of a secret marriage made with his housekeeper Marion Hume (Ballin) on his yacht before it was sunk. Documentary evidence of the marriage now lies many fathoms underwater, and one witness is dead while another, a sailor, has vanished on some voyage. During a hunt Angus accidentally shoots his son from the marriage, leading Marion to announce it to save her injured son. Angus denies the marriage, so Marion goes to her father James Hume (Aitken), while two admirers of Marion hunt for the missing witness in the London underworld. Her father fights for his daughter''s honor in court, but the case is lost for lack of evidence, and he is ruined on the exchange, dying when he is unable to meet his liabilities. When the missing witness is found, Angus bribes him to disappear. There remain only the papers in a chest on the sunken yacht, and diving operations are ongoing. The two admirers and Lord Angus hasten to the scene. One of the admirers dives on the yacht as does Angus armed with a knife. During an underwater struggle Angus accidentally cuts his own air hose and is killed. The admirer returns to the surface with the proof of the marriage and claims Marion for himself, while the second admirer dies while also confessing his love.'
'drama','As described in an adaptation of the film in the October 1919 issue of the film magazine Shadowland,[4] singer Marcia Warren is in Russia with her father Robert Warren (Edward Connelly), who manages an oil field for Prince Michael Orbeliana the Elder (Alec B. Francis). The Elder Prince requests Marcia to sing for him, which she does well. The young Prince Michael Orbeliana (Lou Tellegen) and Marcia fall in love, but she rejects his advances because the prince is already married and also could never marry an American. Years later, she is at the opera in Petrograd. The Prince''s wife runs off with a count, and, with the Russian Revolution and fall of the Tsar, Michael (who is democratic at heart) leaves the city for the family estates in the Caucuses to deal with the peasants. The Red leader Peter Poroschine comes to Marcia and professes his love for her, but she rejects him, and he threatens to kill Michael, who is back in the city. Peter has a woman named Feda guard Marcia, but after a struggle Marcia escapes. Marcia goes to Michael and brings him back to her apartment, but Peter also comes there. Peter is killed by Feda. No longer a prince, Michael and Marcia are now free to be together.'
'comedy','Captain Bob White, an American aviator behind enemy lines, disguises himself as a woman in order to fool and steal an important map from the members of the German High Command, including the Kaiser himself.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[2] old Gordon Rogers (Roberts) believes in working 18-hour days while Billy (Reid), who is in love with Gordon''s daughter Helen (Hawley), does not believe in working at all. The hard-hearted father will accept Billy as a son-in-law on one condition: that he earn his own living for one month and if, during that time, he hears the fatal words "You''re fired!" addressed to him, then Helen, sole heiress of the Rogers'' millions in gold, can never be his. While this is a terrible test, Billy is game. His first job as a stenographer he resigns at the end of his first day to avoid being fired. Job number two is at a restaurant where he is required to wear the garb of an ancient warrior known to all readers of historical novels as a halberdier, and then pose as a statue on the landing of the stairs. To the restaurant comes fair Helen, her father Gordon, and Tom (Woodward), a young gentleman willing to do anything short of murder the sake of the young lady and her golden prospects. Old Gordon has arranged a merger of a stray railroad he owns with another company, and is fighting Tom''s uncle, an unscrupulous financier who has promised his nephew a supply of ready cash if he can obtain the papers for the deal. Tom known that the papers are in a safe at the Old Rogers'' home, and hires two experts to open the safe and get the papers. All of these people are meeting at the restaurant. Helen catches sight of Billy in his ancient garb and recognizes him. She tries to find out why he is so dressed, but Bill is sworn to secrecy and dare not tell her. To show her anger she insists that he wait on her party, and is almost fired when he spills soup on her gown. Previously Billy had worked as a xylophone player at a dance where Helen was a guest, and hid behind a false mustache. Her great anger when he would not do as she demanded shows her true love for him. Billy manages to stick out the thirty days without being fired and also obtains the merger papers stolen from the safe, and returns them to Gordon, who hands over his daughter at once.'
'mystery','As summarized in a film publication,[2] Robert Castleback (Lewis) has plans for worldwide power through a mysterious secret that he possesses. Arsene Lupin (Nowell), master thief but loyal Frenchman, knows of the secret and is attempting to obtain state papers held by Castleback. Two other persons in the employ of the Kaiser are attempting the same thing. Castleback is murdered and some suspect Lupin, who announces his intention to catch the real killer. Disguised as the chief of police, he works fearlessly alongside the police. Soon he comes into contact with another master criminal, Ribeira (Beery), who is masquerading as Maj. Parbury, and Lupin suspects that he is complicit in the crime. Lupin falls in love with Dolores Castleback (Adams), widow of the murdered man. When Ribeira, to get rid of Lupin, steals his daughter and informs Lupin that he will have to go alone to a deserted house to get her back, Lupin goes, foils the plot to kill him, and escapes through an underground tunnel that comes out in the home of Delores. As he turns from the mantelpiece where he has discovered the hiding place of the state papers, he sees a mysterious man that he has been trailing. To Lupin''s horror he finds that the man is really Delores, who is in reality a German criminal. She kills herself and Lupin escapes.'
'comedy short','Mrs. O''Brien (Herring) is eager to be accepted as part of high society, and she is hosting a fox hunt as part of her plans. Her husband and daughter, though, have no interest in society affairs. Mrs. O''Brien wants to invite Lord Abernathy to the hunt, and she mentions this to the "society pilot" who is advising her. But this woman and a confederate are merely using Mrs. O''Brien and the hunt for their own purposes. When Lord Abernathy is unavailable, they convince an ambitious young man (Lloyd) to impersonate him, so that they can proceed with their scheme.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] April Poole (Davies), a young writer in love with publisher Kerry Sarle (Tearle), visits the office of Mr. Sarle and his partner Ronald Kenna (Frank) and reads her latest story to them. She has made Sarle the hero, Kenna the villain, and herself the heroine. In the story, April changes places with Lady Diana Mannister (Marshall), who is being sent to South Africa to separate her from her lover, a young artist. A famous diamond that Lady Diana is to deliver at the end of her journey is given to April. Thieves trail her during her journey. With efforts by Kenna to steal the diamond prevented by the intervention of Sarle, the story comes to a close.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] when Elizabeth (McDowell) and Pierre Monnier (Swickard) part, the mother takes one son, Henry (Kinny), while the father takes the other, Maurie (McGrail), to Paris. Maurie shows promise as a sculptor, but his life is ruined when he marries Clarice (Carew) and she deserts him to go with Jules Chandoce, a returning soldier. When his father dies, Maurie returns to New York, but finds his mother and brother ashamed of him. He walks the street for a time and contemplates suicide, but becomes inspired after meeting artist model Hope Martin (Joy). With her posing for him he makes a figure called "Blind Youth" which makes him famous overnight. After confessing his love to Hope, he tells her of his unfortunate marriage. Clarice reappears to share Maurie''s recent fortune, but, after finally realizing that his happiness means more to her than money, she confesses to him that their marriage was illegal as Chandoce really was her husband. Maurie and Hope then wed.'
'melodrama','Charles Stoddard (played by Hale) is a poor artist living with his wife and two children in Greenwich Village. Destitute after his wife dies, he is forced to sell one of his children for $1,000 to a childless rich woman. He soon comes to his senses however, and backs out of the deal. From there, the story takes a number of twists and turns involving Ruth Gardner (Leslie) (the wife of Dr. Gardner who treats Stoddard''s child for illness) and Ruth''s parents -- whose father is also Stoddard''s landlord and mother is later revealed to be Stoddard''s long-lost mother from a prior marriage.[3]'
'comedy','Buster, a particularly untalented golfer plays golf one morning with a group of friends. After a disastrous start he drives his ball into a nearby river but retrieves it after it is consumed by a fish. Meanwhile a convict escapes from a nearby prison and makes his way towards the golf course as the prison guards give chase. Buster''s ball is once again stolen, this time by a dog who takes it a long way from the court. Buster accidentally knocks himself after his ball ricochets off of an equipment shed and while he is unconscious, the prisoner switches clothes with him. The guards give chase and Buster attempts to escape by jumping into a passing car but it turns out to belong to the warden. Though he hastily jumps into another car, he ends up going into the jail himself. Reading the prisoner number on Buster''s clothes he deduces that he is convict 13 who is scheduled to be hanged that very morning. Luckily Buster''s girlfriend replaces the hangman''s noose with a long elastic rope from the gym so that Buster bounces several times after the trapdoor is opened and he survives. The other prisoners are livid that they will not get to see an execution but the warden promises to hang two prisoners in the morning to make up for today''s botched execution. Later that day Buster accidentally knocks out a prison guard whilst smashing rocks and steals his uniform in order to escape. At the same time a rowdy prisoner revolts in the prison yard and knocks out each of the guards one by one. Buster accidentally stumbles into the prisoner''s path whilst escaping and the prisoner believes him to be another guard. Buster temporarily restrains the prisoner by closing the gate leading into the other yard but the prisoner quickly bends the bars of the gate and pursues Buster to the gallows where Buster restrains him by tying him up using the same elasticated noose used on him earlier. Buster is "promoted" to Assistant Warden for his bravery but the now furious prisoner instigates a riot throughout the prison. The prisoner knocks out Buster, kidnaps his girlfriend and takes her out to the yard where the prisoners have completely overpowered the guards. Buster recovers and using a punching bag which he attaches to the elasticated rope, knocks out all of the rioting prisoners by swinging it around his head as they run around the yard. Buster celebrates but he accidentally knocks himself out when he leans on a sledgehammer which propels up and hits him in the head. However the scene then cuts back to Buster lying outside the equipment shed where he first knocked himself out being woken up by his girlfriend, the events of the short are all revealed to have been nothing more than a dream.'
'period drama','At the beginning of the American Civil War Milt Shanks, who owns a farm in Illinois, is asked by President Abraham Lincoln to join the Copperheads, a clandestine quasi-political organization whose sentiments lie with the South. His family and friends unknowing of his mission call him a traitor. His son later dies in a Civil War battle and his wife dies of heartbreak over the son''s death. Shanks spends decades keeping silent about his involvement with the Copperheads until his granddaughter prepares to marry and he''s forced to come clean about being involved in a secret Civil War Mission. With this understanding friends and family forgive him.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[9] Grace Goodright (Trevelyn) is the beautiful but extravagant wife of Warren Goodright (de Grasse), an American playwright living in Paris. Grace is living beyond her means and owes her modeste Renee Malot (George) money. Malot suggests that Grace contact a wealthy American, army officer Captain Rex Strong (Clyde Fillmore), who might be able to assist her financially. Rex offers Grace a loan, but only if as "security" for the loan she grants him sexual favors. Grace refuses, and Malot, angered at losing an opportunity for obtaining a commission for the loan, attempts to trap Grace in a blackmail scheme. The newspapers print the spicy bit of scandal without mentioning any names. Warren uses the story as the plot for his next play and it meets success. Paris is thrown into a furor over the affair and Warren threatens the life of Captain Strong. After the later convinces Warren that his wife is innocent, the matter is resolved happily.'
'crime drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] The Llano Kid (Pickford), after killing a Mexican in Texas, flees to Buennas Tierras, South America. The American counsel, seeking to rob an aristocratic Spanish family whose son disappeared years ago, schemes to use the Kid as a fence by having him pose as the lost son. The Kid is received royally by the family and for the first time he experiences love. Transformed through the experience of motherly love, the Kid rebels and he refuses to rob his benefactors. Instead, he falls in love with a relative and stays with the family.'
'horror','Henry Jekyll (John Barrymore) is a doctor of medicine, an idealist, and philanthropist. When he is not treating the poor in his free clinic, he is in his laboratory experimenting. Sir George Carew (Brandon Hurst), the father of his fiancée, Millicent (Martha Mansfield), is "piqued" by Dr. Jekyll. "No man could be as good as he looks," Carew says. Following dinner one night, Carew taunts Dr. Jekyll in front of their friends, Edward Enfield (Cecil Clovelly), Dr. Lanyon (Charles Lane) and Utterson (J. Malcolm Dunn) proclaiming "In devoting yourself to others, Jekyll, aren''t you neglecting the development of your own life?" "Isn''t it by serving others that one develops oneself?" Jekyll replies. "Which self?" Carew retorts. "Man has two - as he has two hands. Because I use my right hand, should I never use my left? Your really strong man fears nothing. It is the weak one who is afraid of experience. A man cannot destroy the savage in him by denying its impulses. The only way to get rid of a temptation is to yield to it. With your youth, you should live - as I have lived. I have memories. What will you have at my age?" And thus the seed is sown, and Jekyll begins his experiments. As he observes, "Wouldn''t it be marvellous if the two natures in man could be separated - housed in different bodies? Think what it would mean to yield to every evil impulse, yet leave the soul untouched!" Finally, Jekyll develops a potion that turns him into a hideously evil creature that he calls Edward Hyde. As this creature, he is not recognizable as Dr. Jekyll, and, so, to facilitate the comings and goings of Hyde, he tells his servant, Poole (George Stevens), that Hyde is to have "full authority and liberty about the house." Jekyll thus begins to live his double life. Hyde sets up a room in one of the seediest parts of London. He brings in a girl from the dance hall, Gina (Nita Naldi), to live with him there and frequents opium dens, dance halls, and bars - any place that satisfies his evil desires. Although Jekyll has developed a potion that will also return him to his original appearance and character as Dr. Jekyll, each time he takes the potion to become Edward Hyde, he worsens. He not only looks more evil, he becomes more evil, as well. Millicent Carew is worried about the absence of her fiancé, so Sir George goes to call on Jekyll to see what is the matter. Although Jekyll is not home when he calls, Sir George encounters Hyde in the street just as he knocks a small boy to the ground injuring him. To make recompense for his actions, he goes and gets a check which he returns to the boy''s father. Carew notices that the check has been signed by Dr. Jekyll. He confronts Poole who tells him the story of Edward Hyde. In the meantime, Hyde/Jekyll has returned to the lab and, after drinking the potion, returns to his original self. Sir George finds him in the lab and demands to know his relationship with "a vile thing like Hyde?" "What right have you to question me - you who first tempted me?" says Jekyll. Sir George angrily retorts that unless Jekyll is forthcoming with an explanation, he must object to his marriage to Millicent. This angers Jekyll to the point that he suddenly becomes Hyde, right in front of Sir George''s eyes, without benefit of the potion. Sir George runs into the courtyard where Hyde catches him and clubs him to death with his walking stick. Hyde runs to his apartment and destroys any evidence that may link him to Jekyll. He eludes the police by only minutes and returns to his lab where he is able to drink the potion that restores him as Jekyll. In the ensuing days, as Millicent grieves, Jekyll is tortured by his misdeeds. Soon, the drug needed to make the potion that will return him as Dr. Jekyll is depleted and cannot be found in all of London. Jekyll stays locked up in his lab fearing he may become Hyde at any moment. Millicent finally goes to see him, but just as she is about to enter the lab, he begins to transform into Hyde. Jekyll consumes the poison in the ring he took from the Italian dancer before he opens the door, fully transformed into Hyde. He lets her in, locks the door and grabs her in his arms. Suddenly, he starts convulsing. Millicent runs from the lab and when Lanyon comes in, he finds Hyde sitting in a chair, having just died, and his appearance returned to that of Dr. Jekyll. He discerns that Jekyll committed suicide, and calls the others (Poole, Utterson and Millicent) in, but declares to them that Hyde has killed Dr. Jekyll. In the final shot, Millicent is grieving next to the body of Dr. Jekyll.'
'drama','As described in a film publication,[4] Betty Palmer (Bennett) is in a New York criminal gang. Her sweetheart, Roger Moran (Hughes), completes a two-year sentence at Sing Sing and surprises her when he announces at a banquet the gang gives in honor of his return that he is going straight. She refuses to leave her pals in the gang, so he leaves her and finally obtains work at a local bank in a small New England town. Later, the gang leader sends Betty and a confederate to rob the bank. Roger follows them back to New York and, by posing as a backslider, succeeds through Betty in recovering the stolen cash. Betty then abandons the life of crime and marries the man of her heart.'
'drama','As described in a film publication,[4] the proud, Southern, and old Tucker family is now broke and places its hopes on a college youth, Dal (Karns), who has a taste for gambling, his sister Beverly (Vidor), full of hope and trust, and young Ben, a disciple of right thinking. Beverly has put her brother through college only to find out that he has become a first class scamp. To maintain the honor of her name, Beverley''s fiance tries to anticipate a raid on a vicious dive in the town that is frequented by Dal. The raid takes place and Dal escapes, only to be later caught and indicted for murder. The evidence is going against Dal until his little brother Ben comes into the courtroom and, with the spirit of truth, testifies such that Dal is freed.'
'comedy short','Fatty and Buster play automobile mechanics and firemen at a garage in a fire station. Mollie Malone plays the boss'' daughter who is constantly pestered by a stranger named Jim (McCoy) who wishes to make her his girlfriend, though she turns him down after the flowers he brings her end up accidentally soaked in motor oil thanks to Fatty and Buster. Livid, Jim raises the alarm in the fire station to make Fatty and Buster think there is a fire and forcing them to rush across town. However, Jim accidentally starts a real fire while trying to exit the station and Fatty and Buster immediately return to put out the fire and rescue Mollie who is trapped inside. They attach the fire hose to a hydrant, but the hose has a leak, forcing Fatty to sit on it. After a streetcar runs over the hose, Fatty, Buster and several of the townspeople rescue Mollie using a life net but she bounces up into the telephone wires. Fatty and Buster eventually get Mollie down but become trapped themselves; luckily Mollie moves a car beneath them just before they fall and all three ride off together. The film is available on DVD, as part of the "Arbuckle and Keaton Collection".'
'drama','As summarized in a film publication,[2] Laurie Devon (Mayo) is a New York playwright who, having had one success, refuses to work on another play. One night he sees a woman (Anderson) in an apartment across the street take out a gun and place it to her forehead. He reaches her in time to save her, and she tells him that she is under some terrible evil influence, which she will not disclose. Devon attempts to untangle the mystery and is led on an adventure. The woman is taken to a house on Long Island, where Devon after a fight rescues her. He takes out the revolver and shoots one of the pursuers, who falls to the ground. On returning home, he is heartbroken and tells his sister Barbara (Fair) and his friends that he is a murderer. His sister and two of his friends then confess that the whole thing was a frame-up, that they had hired some actors to stage everything, and that it was an attempt to get the ambitionless author to write again. The revolver used in the suicide attempt by the woman and in the later shooting had blanks. Devon and the woman from the apartment melt into each other''s arms at the final fade-out.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] Rex Rossmore (Moore) disgust at the hairpin-strewing, straggly locks of his young bride Muriel (Bennett) and her concentration upon extra-particularness in her housekeeping make it easy for him to forsake her company outside the home for that of his stenographer Effie Wainwright (Livingston). Overhearing her husband''s confession of her failure as a wife to him as he makes it to his employer, she considers suicide. Making herself orderly for death, she discovers that she is beautiful in life, and conceives a plan whereby she plays an affair of her own against that of her husband and stenographer, acquaints herself with the ways of the gay world and practices them until her husband''s rage brings issue to their artificial existences. This reveals to the man that his love is to the woman herself, after all, and not to her fashionable habiliments. This readjustment is certain to reflect a compromise in several things after a reconciliation is brought about after the husband discovers that another man is in love with his wife.'
'comedy','The action in Haunted Spooks centres around Harold''s romantic problems. It is set in the South ("[go] down the Mississippi and turn to the right"). The opening sequence has an uncle reading a telegram regarding a will. It tells him that his niece Mildred will inherit the house and plantation provided she lives there for a year with her husband. He tells his wife that they must scare them out of the house. A lawyer visits the niece to tell her of the will. She tells him she isn''t married and he says he can resolve the problem. We then jump to Harold who is disappointed in love and vying for the attention of the Other Girl in rivalry with her other potential suitor. They compete to be first to ask her father for her hand in marriage. Harold wins but when he returns to the girl she is in the arms of yet a third man, so he gives up. He then tries, with notable lack of success, to commit suicide. Firstly using a gun he finds on a path, which turns out to be a water-pistol; then standing in front of a tram, which takes a sudden turn; then he ties a rock around his neck and jumps off a low bridge into a lake, but this fails as it is only inches deep; he then picks a second bridge, but lands in a boat; and finally stands in front of a car, which stops in time, but contains the lawyer from the earlier scene. He takes Harold to Mildred and arranges their marriage. They then drive off to the mansion, with some jokes en route: the gesticulating passengers in the car in front appear to be signalling right then left, preventing overtaking; the birds in the back seat pecking his head. They reach the mansion and the uncle plays a series of tricks to make the house appear haunted. A series of people appear in white sheets and covered in flour until the prank is uncovered. In a more unusual prank a pair of trousers walk on their own, having a little black boy inside. We see Harold''s hair stand on end then fall. The film ends with the couple asking one another what their name is and entering the bedroom together.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Princeton Hadley (Chatterton), because of favors done during his college days by Billy Westover (Lee), feels a moral obligation upon Billy''s sudden death in an automobile accident to hold to the responsibility of paying the widow''s alimony to Judith (Bennett) as her husband''s bondsman, even though the law does not require this. Shortly before his death, Billy had been divorced from his wife and had lost his fortune. Later, Princeton meets the widow without knowing her identity and falls in love with her. Judith is revealed when the two are brought before their lawyer, and Princeton convinces her that he wishes to continue his obligation as her husband.'
'comedy','The film revolves around a young woman who sleepwalks and the doctor who is attempting to treat her. The climactic scene involves the young woman sleepwalking precariously on the outside ledge of a tall building, anticipating Lloyd''s more famous skyscraper-scaling scenes in Safety Last! (1923). A subplot has Lloyd and his friend getting inebriated on homemade liquor and then trying to avoid a prohibition-era policeman who pursues them for being drunk.'
'adventure','As described in a film publication,[2] Huckleberry Finn (Sargent) has been adopted by the Widow Douglas (K. Griffith) who plans to "civilize" him. With Tom Sawyer (G. Griffith) he forms a robber gang, and in a cave has the local boys take an oath to stick together. In his bedroom he runs into his no-account father (Lanning) who steals Huck''s small change and later kidnaps Huck, taking him in a small boat down the river, while Tom and the gang wait for their leader to appear. Huck later escapes from a cabin where his father mistreated him, making it look as if he drowned while getting away in a canoe. Rumors of Huck''s death spreads. Jim (Reed), the widow''s slave boy, hears that he is to be sold and runs off, and joins Huck on a raft. Duke (Humphrey) and King (Bates), two broken-down actors fleeing a crowd they had fooled with a mock theatrical performance, join them. At the next town the actors again fool the people with a pretend theatrical performance with Huck acting as the doorkeeper. Further downstream the actors then impersonate the brothers of a deceased man named Wilks in an attempt to obtain the inheritance, but Huck takes the money to keep it from the actors after he is smitten by the daughter, Mary Jane Wilks (Ralston). Huck and Jim leave to escape the wrath of their former companions just as the actual relatives of the dead man show up. After peace is made when King and Duke rejoin the group, a shabby trick is performed when King sells Jim to a man named Phelps and then tells Huck that Jim has been lost. Upon learning the truth, Huck sets out to rescue his friend. He discovers that Mrs. Phelps (Moore) is the sister of Tom''s Aunt Polly. Huck poses as the nephew Tom, whom Mrs. Phelps has never met. Then the real Tom arrives, who is surprised as he believed that Huck had died. After exchanging signals, Tom poses as his brother Sid and they go through with a plan. In a struggle to get Jim away, Tom is shot in the leg. Jim escapes, and while the two youngsters are congratulating themselves at Tom''s sickbed, Aunt Polly arrives and says that Jim had been freed a month earlier. She informs the Phelps of Huck''s actual identity and takes him back, cured of his wandering, to the Widow Douglas.'
'drama','Mary (Seymour) is the daughter of a French man and a Javanese mother and enjoys dancing. She has two lovers, one being a beachcomber (Barthelmess) who was tossed off a passing ship for failing to work and desires only to drink gin. The other is a sickly young American (Hale) who has come to the island in hope of regaining his health and is staying with his missionary uncle (MacQuarrie) and his wife (Bruce). Natives from a neighboring island attack. The beachcomber reforms and Mary comes to love him.[4]'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] in a small town lives Dr. Harvey Nesbit (Burton), who knows of the scandals of the community. His daughter Laura (Thurman) loves Grant Adams (Kirkwood), the editor of the local newspaper. Margaret Muller (Nilsson) arrives in town to teach at the school and takes lodging at Grant''s mother''s house. She desires to dethrone Laura as a social leader, and decides to use Grant to obtain her desire. Laura, to arouse Grant''s jealousy, flirts with another man, and they quarrel. Laura returns to her boarding school, and when she returns after her term she discovers Margaret as the mother of Grant''s illegitimate child. Grant''s mother, to shield Margaret''s reputation, assumes the parentage of the child. As Dr. Nesbit knows differently, this places a barrier between him and his daughter. Grant''s mother dies and with Margaret, in pursuit of Henry Fenn (Crane), a young lawyer, refuses to mother her child. Fenn''s partner Tom VanDorn (McCullough) marries Laura, and Fenn marries Margaret. Eventually Laura''s husband succumbs to Margaret''s wiles, their affair leading to the divorce of Fenn and Laura from the guilty couple. Grant quits his paper to become foreman at a coal mine. A terrific explosion happens and, while attempting to rescue his men, Grant is badly injured. He is taken to Dr. Nesbit''s home and Laura, tired of VanDorn, arrives at the same time. She nurses him back to health and the fires of love are rekindled. They decide to work to better the condition of the miners, but the issue of Grant''s parentage remains a barrier between them. A strike is called and "Hog Tight" Sands, the owner of the mine, engages a horde of strike breakers to run Grant out of town. In the melee VanDorn holds up Grant''s little son as a threat to make Grant give himself up, and the child is shot. Margaret then hates VanDorn and kills him, and then goes insane. On the deathbed of the child Grant confesses to Laura that the child is his, admitting this was a barrier between them. They come to an understanding and happiness.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[2] Peter Lane (Turner), known as the "jack-knife man" because he spends his time whittling objects from wood, selling them to earn a living, loves and is loved by the Widow Potter (Leighton), desisting from matrimony for reasons known only to himself. When a hungry child, "Buddy," comes to his houseboat in quest of food, Peter asks and receives the aid of the Widow Potter. Returning to the boat he finds the boy''s mother, dying, and he buries her and adopts the boy. A while later a tramp, "Booge," joins the queer family and refuses to be ousted. The three become inseparable companions. Then a busybody parson seizes the boy and insists on finding a home for him, fortunately placing him with the Widow Potter. Time passes and Peter becomes widely sought as a maker of wooden toys. After some developments of a startling nature, his financial position improves, and Peter marries the widow and all are happy.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[1] Judy (Minter), a young woman of the country, lives with her stern grandfather (Roberts), her sister Olive (Ridgeway), and their cousin Denny (Lee), whom the old man, angry that his granddaughter Claudia eloped, mistreats. Their neighbor Jim Shuckles (Sears) aids the old man in his cruelty, hoping to win his aid in his conquest of Judy. Olive, who has been betrayed by Jim, warns her against him. Later Judy is told that Jim plans on throwing a bomb at Governor Kingsland (Standing) of the State. She is instrumental in saving his life and later prevents his confinement to a sanitarium on a trumped up charge of insanity. When a chain of historical events is uncovered that prove that Judy is the daughter of a former now-deceased friend of the Governor and is an heiress. After the marriage of Jim and Olive, and an adjustment of the affairs all around, there is a happy ending.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] granddaughter and daughter of two matrimonial insurgents, Julie Le Breton (Ferguson) has a bar sinister heritage to perpetually battle. In the position of secretary to her haughty aunt of wealth and social position, Lady Henry (Waterman) she obtains a popularity distasteful to the latter, particularly as it includes the affections of Lord Delafield (Herbert). He persists in defiance of her wishes and in his love for Julie, who instead has given her heart to Captain Warkworth (Powell), unaware of his perfidy and an affair with a mutual friend, Aileen Moffet. Placed in a compromising situation in Warkworth''s apartments after fleeing from the slurs and unfair treatment of her aunt Lady Henry, Julie gains knowledge of his dishonorable ways and decides to end her life by poison. When she is taken to the hospital to recover her health, the police find Lord Delafield''s card in her possession. He comes to offer his faithful protection that ultimately wins her love after the death of Captain Warkworth.'
'adventure','In 1757, in the midst of the French and Indian War, three French divisions and their Huron Indian allies are advancing on Fort William Henry, a British stronghold south of Lake George in the colony of New York. Chingachgook (Theodore Lorch) sends his son Uncas (Roscoe), the last living warrior of the Mohican tribe, to warn the fort''s commander, Colonel Munro (James Gordon), of the imminent danger. Uncas is admired by Munro''s daughter Cora (Barbara Bedford), much to the displeasure of her suitor, Captain Randolph (George Hackathorne). Munro dispatches Major Heyward (Henry Woodward) and an Indian runner named Magua (Beery) to escort Cora and her "capricious" younger sister Alice (Hall) to the relative safety of Fort Edward, and to deliver an urgent request for reinforcements to its commander, General Webb (Sydney Deane). Magua, who is a Huron sympathizer with ulterior motives, convinces Heyward to take a "shortcut" through a forest, then pretends to lose his way. In the forest they encounter Uncas, Chingachgook and the hunter and scout Hawkeye (Harry Lorraine), accompanied by an eccentric preacher named David Gamut (Nelson McDowell). When Heyward asks for directions to Fort Edward, the men become suspicious of Magua who, like all Indians in the area, should have an intimate knowledge of the terrain. Their fears of treachery are confirmed when they discover that Magua has disappeared. Uncas and Hawkeye conceal Heyward and the women in a cave, but Magua and his men find the hiding place, and after a fierce firefight the women are captured. Magua offers to spare "Golden Hair" (Alice) if Cora will become his squaw; but Uncas, Chingachgook and Hawkeye counterattack and rescue the hostages. Although they leave Magua for dead, he is actually uninjured. At Fort William Henry the situation is dire. The only thing keeping the besiegers at bay is a formidable gun emplacement on the left rampart. The cowardly Captain Randolph informs Montcalm, the French commander, that the rampart guns are nonfunctional, leaving Munro no choice but to surrender the fort. Though promised safe passage for the women and children, the Hurons, under the influence of French-supplied whiskey, slaughter the civilians and torch the fort. Magua kidnaps the Munro sisters for a second time and flees. Uncas and Hawkeye pursue him, but Magua reaches a neutral Delaware village. The dispute is taken before a Delaware council of three; their judgment is that Cora be released to Uncas, and that Alice remain with Magua. To save her sister, Cora offers to take her place. Uncas vows that Magua will not leave with his true love; but by Delaware law, Magua is protected until sundown. That night, Cora escapes and is pursued by Magua to the edge of a precipice. She threatens to jump if he approaches, so Magua waits patiently for her to fall asleep. When she does, he grabs her arm. She flings herself off the cliff, but Magua still has hold of her arms. When Uncas appears, the situation is reversed: Cora tries to save herself, but Magua uses his knife to pry her fingers loose, and she falls to her death. In the ensuing fight, Magua stabs Uncas, whose body rolls down the embankment to rest near Cora''s. With his final, dying strength, Uncas reaches forth and takes Cora''s hand in his. Magua flees when Chingachgook and Hawkeye arrive, but Hawkeye shoots him dead. At Cora and Uncas''s burial ceremony, Chingachgook mourns the passing of his son, the last of the Mohicans.'
'romance','A young woman, Natalie Storm (played by Glaum), works in a sweatshop and struggles to support her mother (played by Yorke) and little sister, Beatrice (played by Cartwright). Their mother dies and Beatrice suffers from poverty. Because of her circumstances, Natalie rejects the marriage proposal of Tom Chandler (played by Kirkwood), a self-educated mining engineer. He then leaves for South America, where he intends to make his fortune. To save her sister and herself, Natalie becomes the mistress of a wealthy Wall Street magnate, Alvin Dunning (played by Kilgour). When he publicly humiliates her, however, she becomes determined to free herself. Meanwhile, Chandler discovers a copper mine in South America and returns. He is invited to a party at Dunning''s home. When he meets Natalie as Dunning''s mistress he is heartbroken and abruptly leaves. Natalie is by now desperate to get away from Dunning. She then acquires enough money from a lucky stock tip to leave him. Dunning finds Natalie and attempts to force her to return to him. He is killed in a violent car accident and Natalie is severely injured. Upon opening her eyes after the crash, she sees Chandler standing over her. The couple is happily reconciled.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Thomas Bevan (MacQuarrie) has served an undeserved term in prison. He marries again, but his new wife is unsympathetic towards his daughter Stella (Dempster) because of the father''s great great love for and comradeship with his daughter. Matthew Crane (Randolf) of the Secret Service, who sent Bevan to prison, comes to the town where Bevan is now living. Bevan''s wife is unfaithful, and a loyal servant (Lestina) goes after Bevan, who had been leaving on a business trip, and tells him of the treachery. Bevan goes back to verify the statement, and in a fight the man (Kent) is accidentally killed. Crane hears of the murder and intercepts Stella, who had been on her way to the motorboat Bevan had purchased for his getaway. Bevan comes up from the rear and makes a captive of Crane until he and his daughter leave. They eventually land on a South Sea island and happily live there with one servant. Visiting a nearby island to trade with a native, Stella meets Bruce Sanders (Barthelmess), a wealthy plantation owner out for excitement. She wants to be friends with him, but fears he may be a federal officer looking for her father. Sanders is puzzled by her cold manner. Sanders returns to the mainland where he meets Crane who is hot on the trail. Crane persuades Sanders to take him to the island where Stella and Bevan live, which he, unsuspecting, gladly does. On their arrival Crane arrests Bevan and Stella, believing Sanders deliberately brought Crane there, will have nothing to do with him. Stella sinks Sanders boat, marooning all four on the island. When the boat is washed ashore, Sanders to show his good faith sinks it again, and Stella confesses that she loves him. Crane''s comrades send help to him on the island, and Bevan refuses to get on the boat. After a dramatic fight, Crane believes Bevan has drowned. Stella and Sanders return and wed on the mainland and make plans to rescue her father.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] jealous husband Louis Floriot (Courtleigh), refusing to forgive his wife Jacqueline (Frederick) for fleeing from his wrath and living with the friend who presses his attentions on her, forces her into the life of a derelict. Twenty years later she returns to France from Buenos Aires believing that her son Raymond has died. Laroque (Ainsworth), a crook who aids her in her return to France, learns that she is the wife of a man of wealth and tries, with the help of his two associates M. Robert Parissard (Belmore) and M. Merival (Louis), to get possession of a fortune that rightfully belonged to Jacqueline. To protect her husband from violence, Jacqueline kills Laroque and, accused of murder, is brought to trial. Refusing to confer with her counsel and preferring death to freedom, during the course of the trial she receives the shocking revelation that the defendant attorney is her son Raymond (Ferguson). The tragic story ends with the reunion of the two and the death of the miserable mother.'
'comedy drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] American Victor Jones (Faversham) finds himself penniless and stranded in London. He meets the Earl of Rochester (Faversham), and the similarity between the two is so noticeable that even friends mistake Jones for the Earl. The Earl is estranged from his wife (Hopper) and family, owes great sums of money, and is considered in a bad light by acquaintances. He gets Jones drunk and sends him to the Rochester mansion, and then commits suicide. Until Jones receives a note written by the Earl prior to his death, he does not perceive his position. After reading the note, Jones immediately begins to pose as the Earl, but later reveals this scheme. However, he has fallen in love with the Earl''s widow and they decide to reside in the United States.'
'swashbuckler','The Mark of Zorro tells the story of Don Diego Vega, the outwardly foppish son of a wealthy ranchero Don Alejandro in the old Spanish California of the early 19th century. Seeing the mistreatment of the peons by rich landowners and the oppressive colonial government, Don Diego, who is not as effete as he pretends, has taken the identity of the masked Robin Hood-like rogue Señor Zorro ("Mr. Fox"), champion of the people, who appears out of nowhere to protect them from the corrupt administration of Governor Alvarado, his henchman the villainous Captain Juan Ramon and the brutish Sergeant Pedro Gonzales (Noah Beery, Wallace Beery''s older half-brother). With his sword flashing and an athletic sense of humor, Zorro scars the faces of evildoers with his mark, "Z". When not in the disguise of Zorro, dueling and rescuing peons, Don Diego courts the beautiful Lolita Pulido with bad magic tricks and worse manners. She cannot stand him. Lolita is also courted by Captain Ramon; and by the dashing Zorro, whom she likes. In the end, when Lolita''s family is jailed, Don Diego throws off his masquerade, whips out his sword, wins over the soldiers to his side, forces Governor Alvarado to abdicate, and wins the hand of Lolita, who is delighted to discover that her effeminate suitor, Diego, is actually the dashing hero.'
'comedy','Buster Keaton and Virginia Fox play young lovers who live in tenements, the rear of which face each other, with backyards separated by a wooden fence and with their families constantly feuding over the lovers'' relationship. Each morning Buster and Virginia exchange love letters through the holes in the fence much to the disdain of their families who insist they stay away from one another. Buster sneaks into Virginia''s bedroom window as the parents are arguing but he is caught by Virginia''s father who ties him to the washing lines and slowly sends him back over to his family''s house. After much arguing and fighting the two families eventually go to court to settle their differences. Buster demands the right to marry Virginia, and the judge insists that the two families not interfere in their plans. On the day of the wedding the two families are naturally hostile to one another. After the wedding is delayed due to Buster''s belt repeatedly breaking resulting in his pants continuously falling down, Virginia''s father discovers that the ring Buster intends to give to Virginia is a cheap 10-cent ring purchased from Woolworths, he angrily calls off the wedding and drags Virginia home. Determined to rescue his love and with the help of his two groomsmen, Buster uses trapeze skills to snag Virginia and the two run off together, eventually finding themselves in the coal shed of a blacksmith who has been ordained as a minister who pronounces them husband and wife.'
'comedy','A young woman, who is employed as a nanny to a lonesome child named Dolly, is preparing to take a vacation which will include a long-awaited reunion with her childhood sweetheart. Her employers are a busy couple who have no time for their small daughter, so the nanny decides—without seeking their permission—to take Dolly with her on her vacation. Meanwhile, the young man she is to meet with races through the countryside by automobile on his way to his appointment. He crashes into a barn, loses his money to a tramp, and must complete his journey riding as a stowaway on the undercarriage of a train. After the couple meet, they and the child board a train. The woman has tickets for herself and Dolly, but the man has no ticket and no money. The young woman discovers to her horror that her young charge''s father is on the train. She does not want him to see her with Dolly, so she leaves the little girl with the young man and joins her employer in a separate coach. The young man is not an experienced babysitter, and caring for the child poses many challenges for him, especially as he must also evade the conductor. The story ends happily: not only does Dolly''s father approve of the young woman taking the little girl with her on her vacation, the young woman also discovers that her sweetheart is the man her employer was traveling to meet, as he has recently hired him for an important position.'
'comedy','While at an amusement park, trying vainly to forget the girl he has lost, a young man (Lloyd) sees the girl (Mildred Davis) with her new boyfriend (Roy Brooks). When her dog gets loose in the park, both suitors have to help her catch it. The girl''s uncle, a balloonist, gives her a pass for two in his balloon, provided that her mother approves. She then offers to take along the first of her admirers who is able to get her mother''s consent. The girl''s new boyfriend races to her house to get the mother''s permission, while the young man tries to telephone her. The young man faces crowded phone booths, gossiping operators, a crying baby and other obstacles in his effort to reach the mother first. Racing back to the girl, the two suitors bump into one another and a pickpocket who has just robbed the girl of her purse. The boy is mistaken for the pickpocket and must elude various policemen on his way back to meet the girl.'
'comedy drama','Based upon a summary of the plot in a review in a film publication,[3] Angie (Dunn) and Abe (Harmon) have been married for many years when bad investments force them to sell their homestead. Angie is to go to the old ladies'' home while Abe is to go to live on the poor farm. When the twenty-nine inmates of the old ladies'' home see how hard it is for the couple to part, they agree to take Abe in, and he is listed on their roster as "Old Lady 31." There are several comic situations as Abe wins his way into the hearts of his female companions. When some apparently worthless mining stock is found to have some value, the couple are able to return to their home.'
'comedy','The story involves two newlyweds, Keaton and Seely, who receive a build-it-yourself house as a wedding gift. The house can be built, supposedly, in "one week". A rejected suitor secretly re-numbers packing crates. The movie recounts Keaton''s struggle to assemble the house according to this new "arrangement". The end result is depicted in the picture. As if this were not enough, Keaton finds he has built his house on the wrong site and has to move it. The movie reaches its tense climax when the house becomes stuck on railroad tracks. Keaton and Seely try to move it out the way of an oncoming train, which eventually passes on the neighboring track. As the couple look relieved, the house is immediately struck and demolished by another train coming the other way. Keaton stares at the scene, places a ''For Sale'' sign with the heap (attaching the building instructions) and walks off with Seely. The New York Times movie review said, "One Week, a Buster Keaton work, has more fun in it than most slap-stick, trick-property comedies."[3]'
'crime','As described in a film magazine,[2] Blizzard (Chaney), a legless cripple whose cunning and criminal mind make him the master of the Barbary Coast underworld, is possessed of two ambitions. One is to get revenge upon Dr. Ferris (Clary), whose blunder during a childhood operation resulted in his legs being mistakenly amputated; the other is to rally the Reds in his organization and loot the city of San Francisco. To accomplish one Blizzard poses for the bust of Satan which is expected to be the masterpiece of Barbara Ferris (Adams), daughter of the doctor, gaining her sympathy and eventually threatening to force her marriage to him. To effect the other, he organizes the dance hall girls to work at the making of hats in a factory room at this house, the hats to be the symbol of the lawbreaking hordes when they are unleashed on the city. Rose (Terry), a detective, obtains entrance to his house as director of the factory. She is brought to love Blizzard for his passion for music. The life of the fiance of Barbara is endangered by Blizzard, who has the idea that the man''s legs should be grafted on Blizzard''s stumps, a second operation clears Blizzard''s brain and he sees with a clear vision his fearful, terrible past, which falls away as if a dream. When happiness comes in his marriage to Rose, his former confederate Frisco Pete (Mason), a drug fiend fearful that Blizzard will reveal the identity of his gang of followers, takes the leader''s life. Barbara and her lover are restored to one another.'
'drama','The film opens in the Ozarks where a distraught Pollyanna (Mary Pickford) is comforting her father the Reverend John Whittier (Wharton James) as he dies. After his death Pollyanna is sent to live on a New England plantation with her Victorian Aunt Polly (Katherine Griffith). Aunt Polly is cold and uncaring to Pollyanna: not picking her up at the station, giving her a sparse room in the attic, and scolding at her every chance she gets. As the days pass Pollyanna''s antics amuse the servants, but not Aunt Polly. One day while playing on the plantation, Pollyanna gets in trouble with a servant woman and runs to hide in a haystack. There she meets Jimmy Bean (Howard Ralston), an orphan her age. Taking pity on him, Pollyanna is certain eventually Aunt Polly will let him live with them. So she hides him in the cellar. One day Aunt Polly insists in going in the cellar despite Pollyanna''s pleas for fear Jimmy will be discovered. Jimmy is asleep and Pollyanna believes they''re in the clear; until Jimmy starts shouting in his sleep, having a bad dream about turnips chasing and trying to eat him. Pollyanna is amused but Aunt Polly is not. After some pleading, Aunt Polly relents and tells Pollyanna to bring some good quilts for Jimmy. One day, as Jimmy and Pollyanna play with the other children, they decide to try and steal some apples from a tree belonging to John Pendleton (William Cortleigh). John catches Pollyanna in the act, but forgives her, realizing she is the exact image of her mother, a woman he once loved deeply, but who left him to marry the man who eventually became Pollyanna''s father. He tells Pollyanna this as he shows her a painting of her mother. Meanwhile Jimmy fights his way in, fearing that Pollyanna is in danger. He tries to defend her but finds that everything is normal. As Pollyanna settles in she seems to bring optimism to those she meets. She is insistent on playing a game her father taught her called ''The Glad Game'', where one counts the things they are glad for. She visits an old shut-in who is supposedly grateful for nothing. Pollyanna brings along an old blind and deaf friend who plays the accordion. Upon discovering the woman is blind and deaf, the shut-in proclaims her gratitude for still having her sight and hearing. One day after a fight with Jimmy in which he ''wishes she would die'', Pollyanna heads into town. She notices a little girl playing in the middle of the road, oblivious to a car coming. Pollyanna leaps in front of the car, throwing the girl to safety, but in the process is hit herself. Jimmy and John both take her back to her Aunt''s place. Aunt Polly becomes frantic and places her in her own lavish bedroom. Realizing the error of her ways, Aunt Polly declares how attached to Pollyanna she is; even giving her a kiss on the forehead, much to Pollyanna''s delight. Realizing they could have lost the little girl forever, many succumb to her wishes for them to be happy. John promises to adopt Jimmy the next day. Aunt Polly refuses to call Dr. Tom, (Herbert Prior), who broke her heart years before. Pollyanna pleads to send for him but she refuses, bringing in another doctor. After several days, they discover Pollyanna is paralyzed from the waist down. Pollyanna becomes distraught; however Jimmy comforts her, insisting she play the Glad Game. Months pass and Pollyanna begins to use a wheelchair. One evening with Aunt Polly, she pleads one last time for her to send for Dr. Tom and Aunt Polly finally relents. With the help of Dr. Tom, Pollyanna is eventually able to walk again. With the success of her walking comes the realization of her wishes. Aunt Polly reunites romantically with Dr. Tom; and Jimmy is happily living with John. One day she asks for Jimmy and he comes to wheel her around the garden. He gives Pollyanna a ring and promptly runs off out of fear, not realizing Pollyanna is able to walk. She is excited at the ring and happily runs after him.'
'comedy','As described in film publications,[2][3] Janie (Gish) gets married with the goal of reforming her husband Jack (Rennie), but he still has the eyes for other women. He promises to reform, but says he is ashamed because she lacks the style of a flapper. All goes well until he meets a pretty woman with a heavy suitcase. He helps her into a taxi cab and takes her home. Janie sees him as she rides by on a bus. That affair gets him into wrong, but he manages to square it with his wife. Then a good looking manicure girl comes into his life, and again Jack falls. Once again Janie is on the job at the psychological moment. This time she leaves him in haste and goes home to her mother. Janie tries to forget Jack by taking a job in her father''s office. Jack, who loves her sincerely, is filled with remorse and despair. He calls upon her to beg her forgiveness and, since she still loves him, she yields. But when he attempts to lay down the law to her, she presses a button on her desk and he finds himself being escorted from the office. He threatens suicide, and this is too much for Janie. She comes back to him and they live together happily.'
'romance','As described in a film publication,[2] a youth (Arthur Rankin) in the prologue seeks advice from his grandfather (Sydney), who then recalls a romance of his own youth which is then shown as a flashback. A priest (Sydney) is in love with an Italian opera singer (Keane), and the drama involves the conflict between his efforts to rise above worldly things or to leave with her. The romance ends with a deep note of pathos.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[3] it is his love for Echo Allen (Scott) that leads Jack Payson (Forman) to sacrifice his honor and deceive the girl into believing that her former lover Dick Lane (Cummings), a prospector, has been killed by Indians. Buck McKee (Beery), a half breed desperado, substantiates Jack''s tale with an account of Lane''s death, fabricated for his own convenience. As the only witness to the scene between Jack and Lane on the night of the latter''s unexpected return when Jack was to marry the girl, Buck uses Lane''s payment of a mortgage to cast evidence upon him that he was the robber and murderer of a local express agent. However, McKee himself committed the crime. His original lie confessed, Jack is sent by his bride out into the desert to bring Lane back. Sheriff Slim Hoover (Arbuckle) follows Jack based upon the strength of McKee''s accusations. The parties meet on the border in a skirmish between Indian renegades and Mexican mounted police, and all are saved by the coming of the United States cavalry. Lane, however, meets his death with the forgiveness of Jack on his lips. Jack is then restored to the love and favor of Echo.'
'comedy','Nicholas Van Alstyne is the richest man in New York, but he is very disappointed in the behavior of his son, Bertie, who stays out all night gambling and partying, and who seems to show no talent or interest in work. In fact, Bertie is feigning this behavior because he believes it will help to impress the girl of his dreams, his adopted sister Agnes. Unfortunately, it helps him to do nothing more than get disowned by his father. Bertie''s sister, Rose, is married to an unsuccessful lawyer named Mark, who is admired by Van Alstyne but in fact is a troublemaker. He has a mistress named Henrietta and an illegitimate child with her. When Henrietta dies after a long illness, a letter is sent to him informing him about the present circumstances. Mark manages to claim the letter is actually Bertie''s, breaking Agnes'' heart and ensuring Van Alstyne never wants to speak to his son again. Soon after, when Van Alstyne goes away on business he leaves Mark in charge of running the family''s finances, but Mark plots to claim the family fortunes himself by selling off all their shares of stock. Bertie inadvertently saves the day by buying back all of the stock without realizing what he is doing. When Van Alstyne sees what has happened he forgives Bertie and allows him to marry Agnes. Mark, meanwhile, conveniently dies of a heart attack when he realizes that his scheme has failed. The film ends a year later, with the birth of Bertie and Agnes'' twin children.'
'comedy short','Buster plays a farmhand who competes with Joe Roberts to win the love of the farmer''s daughter (Sybil Seely). Running from a dog (played by Luke, Fatty Arbuckle''s real-life pet) that he believes is rabid, Buster races around brick walls, jumps through windows, and falls into a hay thresher, which rips off most of his clothes. He is forced to borrow the clothes of a scarecrow in a nearby field. Buster then trips into a kneeling position while tying his shoes, and Sybil believes he is proposing marriage to her. Next the couple speeds off on a motorcycle with Joe and the farmer (played by Buster''s father, Joe) in hot pursuit. Scooping up a minister during the chase, they are married on the speeding motorcycle and splash into a stream at the climax of the ceremony and the film.'
'drama','The film is a morality story on the evils of marital infidelity and the wild lifestyle of New York actors. At the same time, the film included scenes of seduction and debauchery that made it the subject of controversy over its prurient content. The film''s plot centers on Adrienne Renault (played by Louise Glaum), the beautiful queen of the Midnight Follies at the Frivolity Theater. The film opens with Renault''s current conquest, a married millionaire, Philip Overman (played by William Conklin). Overman is in his private box watching Renault perform her seductive "Spider Dance". Renault comes on stage dressed as a spider, "clad in a translucent cloak of webs wrapped cloak-like around a body-hugging black sheath".[2] In another scene of debauchery, the film depicts a party at which "stage-door johnnies drink out of women''s slippers and scantily clad chorines slide down banisters, their undergarments visible to all and sundry".[2][3] The film then shifts to Mrs. Overman (played by Myrtle Stedman), home alone in her empty mansion. Her suspicions persuade her to hire a private detective to follow her husband. Eventually, Mrs. Overman uncovers her husband''s infidelity. She begs Renault to release her husband, but Renault refuses, and Mrs. Overman obtains a divorce. By this time, Renault has fallen in love with a new millionaire, Dick Wallace (played by Irving Cummings). Renault marries Wallace, but Wallace then betrays Renault, falling in love with Renault''s young protege, Daisy (played by Viola Barry). It was Renault who had coached Daisy in the ways of seducing wealthy married men. Renault begs Daisy to release Wallace, harkening back to the scene where Mrs. Overmire had pleaded with Renault. As Renault had done with Mrs. Overman, Daisy refuses to release Wallace. Renault then sails for Europe. She ends up on the same ship with the reunited Overmans, who are on a second honeymoon. The chastened Renault does nothing to disrupt the relationship, resigned to a life of solitude. The film''s final intertitle reads, "The standards of morality eternally demand that the naked soul of Sex be stripped of its falsehoods – which can only be atoned for through bitter tears."[2][3]'
'drama','A period newspaper gives the following description: "Shore Acres is a story of plain New England folk on the rock ribbed coast of Maine. Martin Berry, a stern old lighthouse keeper, forbids his spirited daughter Helen to speak to the man she loves! It is Martin''s fondest hope that Helen will marry Josiah Blake, the village banker. Helen refuses to obey her father, and elopes with her sweetheart on the "Liddy Ann," a vessel bound down the coast. Her father learns of her departure, and insane with rage, he prevents his brother, Nathaniel, from lighting the beacon that will guide the vessel safely out through the rocks of the harbor. Desperately the two men battle together in the lighthouse—one to save the vessel, the other to destroy her. A sou''easter is raging, and during their struggle the "Liddy Ann" goes on the rocks and the passengers are left to the mercy of the storm. The scene fairly makes the nerves tingle with excitement. What befalls thereafter is thrillingly unfolded in this picturization of the greatest American play of the century. Shore Acres is a big human drama of thrills and heart throbs, replete with delicious humor and tender pathos." [4]'
'comedy','As summarized in a film publication,[5] Marjorie Bowen (Bennett) is a model who longs for romance and adventure of the story book variety, but never gets further than displaying gowns at an ultra-fashionable clothing shop. Every customer who comes in is buying a gown for a ball thrown by some Prince. Yvette (Pavis), a French woman, comes to order a gown and brings her fiance Sir Leeds (Webb), who immediately attracts Marjorie''s attention, but she loses hope after she hears that he is engaged. Marjorie stays alone in the shop to deliver the gown to Yvette and dresses herself in the costume. Some crook business follows in which Yvette and an idler are implicated. Marjorie gets mixed up in it and ends up kidnapped and in a room with Sir Leeds, who tries to explain what happened. They escape and Marjorie impresses the Prince (Ghent) by recovering a note and piece of jewelry that the Prince had indiscreetly given a New York society woman and which he feared would be used against him. Leeds turns out to be a detective. He asks Marjorie to marry him.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Deane Kendall (Peters), a country boy who has succeeded in being admitted to the bar, finds few clients in the small village of Harmony. When there is a sensational case involving a man being tried for the murder of his wife''s lover, Edith Beecher (Alden), court stenographer and Deane''s sweetheart, manages to arrange for Deane to defend the husband. Deane''s masterful defense frees the man and Deane wins a position with a city law firm. Deane marries Edith and they move to the city. Deane makes rapid progress but Edith remains a "home body." Society girl Georgia Wilson (Novak) determines to break up this family so she can have Deane for herself. She is aided in her plans by an architect who loves Edith. Through a trick, Edith is lured to the architect''s apartment. Edith believes that Deane, with his strict views concerning a wife''s conduct, will divorce Edith. However, a madly jealous discarded sweetheart of the architect informs Deane of the whole plot. Edith, thinking she has made her husband unhappy and fearing his wrath concerning her visit to the architect, has fled the city to return to her village home. Deane follows her and a reconciliation takes place.'
'comedy','As described in a film magazine,[2] Princess Kalora (Normand) of Morovenia, a fictional country where obese women are prized and the normal-sized princess is widely regarded as being too slender, finds no suitors in the matrimonial market. Her younger sister, weighing in the neighborhood of 300 pounds and who is also the family favorite, is sought by the eligible men of the court. American millionaire Alexander Pike (Thompson) sees the princess and immediately falls in love with her, and is then hounded from the country by the police of her father. The princess is later sent to America to partake of a patent fat producer that is widely advertised, and meets Alexander at the Ambassador''s ball. Their romance is interrupted when a cable calls the princess and her bodyguard back to Morovenia. Arriving at home thinner than when she left, Kalora is thrown into a dungeon. When Alexander, whose millions are no less powerful in Morovenia than in America, arrives, he convinces her father of his love for Kalora, marries the princess, thus opening the way to the altar for the second daughter, and all are happy.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] David Markely''s (Dexter) affection for Ruth Anderson (Swanson) followed her from childhood and deepened with her womanhood. He is a young man of means but a cripple, while she is the daughter of a blacksmith. David persuades her father to allow him to have her educated. When she returns from school, the father realizes David''s attitude towards Ruth and plans their marriage. Ruth, against her father''s wishes, marries Jim Dirk (Blue), the young lover of her heart. A few years later Jim is killed in a subway accident. Ruth returns to her father for forgiveness but finds him blinded by the sparks from his forge and on the way to the county poorhouse. He is stubborn in his unforgiveness of her. She is about to take her own life when David rescues her, offering the protection of his name for her and the child that is about to be born to her. As his wife she eventually realizes a great love for him which he refuses to admit is anything but gratitude. The preachings of his housekeeper (McDowell) have an effect that brings about the reconciliation of Ruth and her father, and through the little boy Bobby (Moore) he becomes a member of the happy household.'
'drama','The main charter Karl Breitman played by Henry B. Walthall, thinks he is a descendant of Napoleon and tries bring back to France the French monarchy. As part of his plot he courts Hedda Gobert played by Rosemary Theby as she owns some Napoleon''s papers. After winning Hedda haert he takes the documents from she. He travels to America to visit Admiral Killigrew played by Hardee Kirkland. He hopes the stolen papers will lead him to Napoleon wealth. He finds a treasure map in the Admiral''s home and then travels to Corsica. Before finding the Napoleon wealth, he comes across someone that mocks him. He challenges them to a duel. In the duel he is mortally wounded. He dies at his love side, Hedda.[3]'
'comedy','Amanda Afflick (Mary Pickford) is a poor laundry woman working in London. She is too weak to do the hard work, but is always picked on and humiliated by her boss Madame Didier (Rose Dione). Amanda is desperately in love with the handsome customer Horace Greensmith (Albert Austin), but none of her colleague think she stands a chance of being his sweetheart. One afternoon Amanda gets in trouble again and is forced to work all night long. All alone, she fantasizes about her first and only meeting with Horace, eight months ago. All the fellow employees ridicule her for still having faith that he will return someday to pick up his clothes. Amanda is fed up with all her colleagues making fun of her and lies that she is a duchess, coming from a wealthy family. She comes up with a story of her having an affair with Horace. Her father found out and sent her to live in London. Meanwhile, co-worker Benjamin Jones (Harold Goodwin) has the job of collecting laundry with his cart. One day, his beloved horse Lavender is too weak to go up a hill and falls. The cart is destroyed and when Benjamin admits the truth to Madame Didier, she asks for the horse to be killed. Benjamin reveals to Amanda what will happen with Lavender and she tries to stop the horse from being killed. She eventually buys the horse and takes it into her own home. Amanda is not allowed to take the horse into her own apartment and is noticed on the streets by the wealthy and sympathizing Lady Burke-Cavendish. She offers to take the horse to live at her country place. Amanda is delighted and accepts her offer. Later, Lady Burke-Cavendish stops by to tell Amanda the horse is doing very well. Amanda lies to the fellow laundry women Lady Burke-Cavendish is actually her aunt. They are interrupted by Horace: he has returned for his laundry. The fellow workers assume he will recognize Amanda, since they were lied to he is her secret lover. Amanda is desperate and successfully pretends to be reunited with him. Horace is confused and wants to leave. While the laundry women are away she tells the truth to Horace. Benjamin walks in on them, initially trying to flirt with Amanda, but when he notices Horace''s presence he leaves. Horace sympathizes with Amanda and invites her to his mansion. He changes his mind when he becomes ashamed of her. Amanda notices this and pulls back. Horace leaves and Amanda is left behind with a broken heart. She is later hired as Lady Burke-Cavendish''s personal maid and now lives in wealth. She finds out Horace is a worker at the country place and they fall in love with each other.'
'adventure','Young Jim Hawkins is caught up with the pirate Long John Silver in search of the buried treasure of the buccaneer Captain Flint. Young Jim Hawkins helps his widowed mother run the Admiral Benbow Inn on the west coast of England. When former pirate Billy Bones is killed at the inn by other pirates seeking the map to the lost treasure of Captain Flint, Jim finds the map and turns it over to his mother''s friends, Dr. Livesey and Squire Trelawney, who organize an expedition to recover the treasure. Jim stows away aboard Livesey and Trelawney''s ship, which is manned by a crew largely chosen by Long John Silver, a one-legged pirate posing as a cook. Silver''s plans for a mutiny are discovered by Jim and reported to Livesey and Trelawney, who manage to hold the pirates at bay until they arrive at the island and take refuge in a shelter with Jim and the loyal crew members. A battle with the pirates results in the map being turned over to Silver and his gang, but the pirates are eventually routed, and Jim and the others find Flint''s treasure through the services of Ben Gunn, a pirate who had been stranded on the island.[4]'
'drama','Based upon a review in a film publication,[2] Sari (Dean) is a beggar girl of the streets of Stamboul, near Constantinople, who attracts the attention of Captain Pemberton (Oakman), a soldier of fortune, who has recruited the Black Horse cavalry to maintain law and order. Sari overhears him being told that her soul is as filthy as the streets, so she goes to pray in a mosque although she knows Turkish women are not allowed to enter. There she witnesses a revenge murder by a sheik (Beery), who then attempts to lure her into his harem. She defies him, and he then tries to purchase her. Pemberton returns from the desert and has determined that he loves Sari. The sheik then carries both Pemberton and Sari to his fortified camp outside the city walls. Sari escapes and gets the Black Horse cavalry to attack the camp, resulting in a battle and rescue.'
'drama','The rich, typified by the handsome man-about-town Lennox (Lowell Sherman), are exceptionally selfish and think only of their own pleasure. Anna (Lillian Gish) is a poor country girl whom Lennox tricks into a fake wedding. When she becomes pregnant, he leaves her. She has the baby, named Trust Lennox, on her own. When the baby dies she wanders until she gets a job with Squire Bartlett (Burr McIntosh). David (Richard Barthelmess), Squire Bartlett''s son, falls for her, but she rejects him due to her past. Then Lennox shows up lusting for another local girl, Kate. Seeing Anna, he tries to get her to leave, but she refuses to go, although she promises to say nothing about his past. Finally, Squire Bartlett learns of Anna''s past from Martha, the town gossip. In his anger, he tosses Anna out into a snow storm. Before she goes, she fingers the respected Lennox as her despoiler and the father of her dead baby. Anna becomes lost in the raging storm while David leads a search party. In the famous climax, the unconscious Anna floats on an ice floe down a river towards a waterfall, until rescued at the last moment by David, who marries her in the final scene. Subplots relate the romances and eventual marriages of some of the picaresque characters inhabiting the village.'
'comedy','Frumpy wife Beth devotes herself to bettering her husband''s mind and expanding his appreciation for the finer things in life, such as classical music. When he goes shopping at a lingerie store to buy some sexier clothes for her, he meets Sally, the shop girl. Rejected by his wife for a night out on the town, he takes Sally, who douses him with her perfume. When Beth smells another woman''s perfume, she kicks him out and files for divorce. Beth''s Aunt Kate takes her shopping to get her mind off of her broken heart. While in the dress shop, Beth overhears women gossiping about how her dull appearance led to her losing her husband. She determines to "play their game" and gets a new "indecent" wardrobe. Meanwhile the manipulative Sally convinces the dejected Robert to marry her. He finds that his second wife annoys him as much as his previous one. Later the couple and their dog end up at the same luxury hotel where divorcee Beth is strutting her stuff. She tries to seduce Robert, but he resists. Each of them quickly leaves the situation, but they meet again on a train. As they''re walking away from the station, Robert slips on a banana peel. When the police arrive on the scene, Beth identifies Robert as her husband and takes him home. Doctors say he is to be kept quiet for 24 hours. The two women argue over whether Sally will move Robert against doctor''s orders. Beth locks the three of them into the bedroom, which leads to a physical struggle over the key during which Sally breaks a mirror, inviting seven years bad luck. Beth threatens to burn Sally''s face with acid, which leads to a stalemate. The three stay in the room until Robert''s crisis is over. A doctor pronounces him healthy, but Robert refuses to go home with Sally. Sally throws the vial of acid on Beth''s face only to discover that Beth was bluffing; the vial contained only eye wash. Sally leaves but not before taking the cash from Robert''s pants pockets and declaring that the best thing about marriage is alimony. The final scenes show the remarried Robert and Beth in their home. Beth dresses up in more revealing clothes and replaces the classical recording on her Victrola with a record of the foxtrot. Sally has taken up with a violin player. The intertitle that ends the film reassures ladies that their husbands would prefer them as sweethearts, and reminds them to make sure they remember, from time to time, to "forget" being a wife.'
'drama','The film opens with Sylvia Landry (Evelyn Preer), a young African-American woman, visiting her cousin Alma in the North. Landry is waiting for the return of Conrad as they plan to marry. Alma also loves Conrad, and would like Sylvia to marry her brother-in-law Larry, a gambler and criminal. Alma arranges for Sylvia to be caught in a compromising situation by Conrad when he returns. He leaves for Brazil, and Larry kills a man during a game of poker. Sylvia returns to the South. Landry meets Rev. Jacobs, a minister who runs a rural school for black children called Piney Woods School. The school was overcrowded, and he cannot continue on the small amount offered to blacks for education by the state. With the school facing closure, Landry volunteers to return to the North to raise $5,000. She has difficulty raising the money needed to save the school so she heads to Boston. However her purse is stolen when she arrives. A local man, Dr. Vivian chases after the thief and recovers her purse. After being hit by a car that stemmed from saving a young child playing in the street, Landry meets the owner of the car as she recovers in the hospital. The owner is Elena Warwick, a wealthy philanthropist. Learning of Sylvia''s mission, she decides to give her the needed money. When her Southern friend Mrs. Stratton tries to discourage her, Warwick increases her donation to $50,000. This amount will save the school and Landry returns to the South. Meanwhile, Dr. Vivian has fallen in love with Sylvia. He goes to Alma, who tells him about Sylvia''s past: these flashback scenes are portrayed in the film. Sylvia was adopted and raised by a poor black family, the Landrys, who managed to provide her with an education. During her youth, the senior Landry was wrongfully accused of the murder of an unpopular but wealthy white landlord, Gridlestone. A white mob attacked the Landry family, lynching the parents and hunting down their son, who escaped after nearly being shot. The mob also lynched Efrem, a servant of Gridlestone. Sylvia escaped after being chased by Gridlestone''s brother, who was close to raping her. Noticing a scar on her breast, Gridlestone''s brother realized that Sylvia was his mixed-race daughter, born of his marriage to a local black woman. He had paid for her education. After hearing about her life, Dr. Vivian meets with Sylvia; he encourages her to love her country and take pride in the contributions of African Americans. He professes his love for her, and the film ends with their marriage.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Mary''s (Bennett) father James Moreland (Conklin) returns from a business trip to Philadelphia and while searching his suitcase for a promised present, she finds the autographed picture of Dolly Wright (Matthews). Mary does not inform her mother (McDowell) of this fact, but instead decides to save her father from this wicked woman. She advertises for an escort to take about town in a search of the Wright woman. Billy Friske (Lee), the son of the owner of the newspaper, answers the advertisement and they soon discover Moreland at a dance. Mary makes the acquaintance of the young woman and is soon invited to her apartment. There she meets her father, who sees the error of his ways and returns home with Mary. Mary is made happy by the faithful Billy and accepts him as her life partner.'
'crime drama','The film is divided into ten chapters. A secret vigilante society''s nine members pass judgment on others. They meet to decide the fate of a wealthy businessman they have been keeping under surveillance known as “The Man Who Has Lived Too Long” and vote to dispatch him with a homemade bomb concealed in a cigar case. Members Forrest (John Bowers) and Farallone (Lon Chaney) are both in love with the sole woman in the group, Lilith (Leatrice Joy). Forrest openly declares his love, but is spurned by Lilith, who is completely devoted to the "Cause". At a meeting later that day, as per their custom, Lilith deals playing cards, one at a time, to each of the society members; whoever receives the ace of hearts is to carry out the assassination. When Forrest is dealt the ace, Lilith offers to marry him that very day if it will give him courage. Forrest readily accepts, much to Farallone''s distress. After the couple marries, the grief-stricken Farallone spends the night in the rain outside their apartment. The next morning, Lilith has been transformed by her love. She begs Forrest not to go through with the assassination. He replies that he is honor-bound to carry out his mission. He goes to the café where his target habitually dines and where Forrest works as a waiter. A distraught Lilith pleads with Farallone to stop Forrest. Farallone agrees to help the couple escape the society''s punishment if Forrest fails his task, but extracts a promise of marriage from Lilith if Forrest is killed. Meanwhile, Forrest decides to abort his mission after he spies a young eloping couple seated next to the rich man’s table. When he returns to the secret council, the group''s leader, Morgridge (Hardee Kirkland), sends the couple away to await Forrest''s execution. Farallone begs the others to reconsider, but they are unmoved. When the cards are dealt, it is Farallone who gets the ace of hearts. Laughing, he carries out his part of the bargain with Lilith by setting off the bomb, killing all present.'
'drama','Socialite Anatol Spencer (Reid), finding his relationship with his wife (Swanson) lackluster, goes in search of excitement. After bumping into old flame Emilie (Hawley), he leases an apartment for her only to find that she cheats on him. He is subsequently robbed, conned, and booted from pillar to post. He decides to return to his wife and discovers her carousing with his best friend Max (Dexter).'
'comedy','Mrs. O''Brien (Herring) is eager to be accepted as part of high society, and she is hosting a fox hunt as part of her plans. Her husband and daughter, though, have no interest in society affairs. Mrs. O''Brien wants to invite Lord Abernathy to the hunt, and she mentions this to the "society pilot" who is advising her. But this woman and a confederate are merely using Mrs. O''Brien and the hunt for their own purposes. When Lord Abernathy is unavailable, they convince an ambitious young man (Lloyd) to impersonate him, so that they can proceed with their scheme.'
'western','As summarized in a film publication,[2] Buck (Jones) consents to study for the ministry, and before leaving attempts to convince his worthless brother Jed (Curtis) to sober up and stay home with their mother (Lee) during Buck''s absence. On the eve of his leaving Buck is implicated in a murder committed by Jed and his gang. Buck serves two years and upon his release completes his study for the ministry before returning home. People ridicule him and laugh at the "jailbird minister," as they call him. During one of his services, his brother and two pals enter the church to hide from the prison officials who are after them. Buck shields them, and they later come to his aid when Flash McGraw (Siegmann), the owner of a dance hall, has lured Hope Standish, a Salvation Army girl (Bedford), to his room, and Buck has to fight the whole gang. A girl who believes McGraw is "throwing her over" reveals that McGraw "framed" the murder charge on Jed and his pals. This gives the men their freedom and clears Buck, leaving him free to marry the Salvation Army girl.'
'melodrama','At the end of class, poorly paid college professor Andrew Griggs begs his unruly students to show more appreciation for his efforts to teach them. Among the most disrespectful are a spoiled trio led by Phil West (Louis Calhern), whose father is the school''s wealthiest trustee; Bert Gareth, a congressman''s son; and Walt Lucas, a 23-year-old who must graduate to receive his inheritance. Unbeknownst to his friends, Phil''s interest has been piqued by the professor''s daughter, Amelia (Claire Windsor). He frequently drops by the public library where she works, just to be able to speak to her. She, however, is unimpressed by him and his wealth. The Griggs'' poverty is contrasted with the prosperity of their next-door neighbors. "Foreign-born" shoemaker Hans Olsen is sympathetic to their plight, as is his eldest son Peter (Amelia''s secret admirer), but his wife strongly dislikes what she considers Mrs. Griggs'' superior airs. One day, Phil finally manages to persuade Amelia to let him drive her home after work, as it is raining (and her shoe has a hole in it). He is invited inside. Mrs. Griggs, knowing who he is, decides to spend what little she has on some fancy sandwiches, cakes and tea in an attempt to put up a brave front. She is heartbroken to find when she brings them in that Phil has departed and poor Reverend Gates (another of Amelia''s admirers) is to be the recipient of her expensive bounty. As a result, Mrs. Griggs is unable to make the mortgage payment on the house. Juanita Claredon (Marie Walcamp), another of the country club set, considers herself Phil''s girl. Noting a change in the now more thoughtful and considerate man, she follows him one day to the library and sees her rival. Eventually, she realizes that his love for Amelia has matured him, and wishes him well. When Amelia becomes sick, the doctor recommends she get some nourishing food, such as chicken. Mrs. Griggs tries unsuccessfully to buy one on credit (a scene observed by Phil). In desperation, she steals an uncooked chicken from Mrs. Olsen''s open window; this is witnessed by the horrified Amelia. While Amelia does not see her mother change her mind and put it back, Mrs. Olsen and Peter do. When Mrs. Olsen threatens to make this theft known, Peter insists he will leave home if she does. Meanwhile, Phil sends anonymously a basket of food (including a chicken) to the Griggs. However, Amelia refuses to eat it, as she believes it was stolen. The next day, though she is still ill, she goes to work, as it is payday. Afterward, she goes to apologize to Mrs. Olsen and to pay for the theft. Her teary attempt to make amends moves her neighbor, who denies she lost a chicken. The strain is too much for Amelia; she faints. Phil and Mrs. Griggs rush over and take her home. There, Phil confesses it was he who sent the chicken. Amelia is finally won over. Phil writes his father about the inadequate salaries paid to the teachers, calling it a "blot on the present day civilization"; impressed, Philip West Sr. comes to see his altered son and agrees that something must be done. In the meantime, Phil dragoons his friends into paying the professor for extra tutoring in the evenings. During that night''s session, both Peter and Gates see that Amelia has given her heart to Phil. In the final scene, the saddened reverend congratulates them and makes his way home.'
'comedy','Buster is married with two children (both of whom wear the porkpie hat made famous by Keaton). He has built a large boat he has christened Damfino inside his home. When he finishes and decides to take the boat out to sea, he discovers it is too large to fit through the door. Buster enlarges the opening a bit, but when he tows the boat out, it proves to be a bit bigger than he estimated, and the house collapses, utterly. Buster loses his car during the attempt to launch the boat. The boat passes with impunity under the exceedingly low bridges of the Venice (California) canals thanks to Buster''s boat design. While out on the Pacific, Buster and his family are caught in a terrible storm. The boat is barely seaworthy to begin with, and it does not help that Buster nails a picture up inside the boat, causing an improbable leak, or when he further drills through the bottom of the boat to let the water out (resulting in a spectacular gusher of a leak). He radios a Morse Code call for help, but when the navy or coast guard operator asks who it is, he answers, "d-a-m-f-i-n-o" (in Morse Code). The man interprets it as "damn if I know" and dismisses the call as a prank. Taking to a (ridiculously small) dinghy (that is in fact a bathtub), Buster and his family wash up on a deserted beach in dark of night. "Where are we?" asks his wife (via an intertitle), to which Buster replies, "Damn if I know" (mouthing the words to the camera, no intertitle is used).'
'comedy','As summarized in a film publication,[4] Monte Brewster''s (Arbuckle) two grandfathers, one rich and the other a self-made man, squabble as to the way the infant should be raised. The mother steps in and decides to raise the child her way, which results in Monte being a clerk in a steamship office at the age of 21. At this point the grandfathers get together again, with one grandfather giving him $1 million, and the other offering $4 million provided that at the end of one year Monte spends the $1 million given by the other grandfather. Other conditions include that he be absolutely "broke" at the end of one year, that he not marry for five years, and not to tell any one of the arrangement. Young Brewster tries everything he can to get rid of the money, but everything he does and the wildest chances he takes result in more money for him. He hires three men to help him spend the money, but they take too much interest in investing it wisely. They hire Peggy Gray (Clarke) for a position in Monte''s office to manage his affairs so that he will not lose his money. Peggy purchases some mines in Peru and a ship Monte has hired for a pleasure cruise is used to go to Peru, but they never get there. They rescue a ship in distress and then are forced to turn back. At the last minute Monte is dead broke but married to Peggy. But the salvage on the ship Monte rescued brings him $2 million, and the Peruvian government extends the time for working the mines, so everything ends happy.'
'romance drama','After the death of his father, young dandy Charles Grandet (Rudolph Valentino) is taken under the care of his uncle, Monsieur Grandet (Ralph Lewis). The miserly Grandet, despite being the wealthiest man in his province, forces his family to live in poverty and schemes to cheat his nephew out of his inheritance from his father. Charles falls in love with Grandet''s daughter Eugenie (Alice Terry) but Grandet condemns their love, and sends Charles away. While Charles is away, Grandet kills Eugenie''s mother, which sends him further into a maddened state. Later, it is revealed that Eugenie is not really Monsieur Grandet''s daughter; if she knew, then she could reclaim all of the gold that originally belonged to her mother, leaving her father penniless. Monsieur Grandet has a violent argument with Eugenie, after she finds letters sent by Charles that her father had hidden, and Monsieur Grandet accidentally locks himself in a small room where he keeps his gold. He starts hallucinating and is eventually killed after becoming frantic. Eugenie is now left an extremely wealthy young lady, which only intensifies the pressure put on her by two competing families to marry one of the suitors. She announces her engagement, but shortly after is reunited with Charles.'
'biography','As described in a film magazine,[3] Disraeli (Arliss), a middle class Jew, has become the British Prime Minister under Queen Victoria and incurs the enmity of nobles and racist snobs. He knows that Russia is angling through diplomacy and intrigue for possession of the Suez Canal and, realizing that unless Britain secures it, the strength of her empire will be lost. He plays a lone game for control of the canal and wins. In his final hour of honor at court, those who stood against him claim the honor of having helped him.'
'drama','The plot of Experience was summarized in the August 1921 issue of Photoplay magazine.'
'drama','Mrs. Mallory (Williams) persuades Mary Maddock (Ayres), her unhappily married seamstress, to take the place of an absent guest at her dinner party. Gorgeously gowned and very beautiful, Mary wins the heart of Nelson Rogers (Stanley), who asks her to marry him. Mary realizes what she is missing and remains faithful to her abusive and idle husband Steve Maddock (Burton), whom she supports. After a final insult from him, she remains with the Mallorys. During that night she is awakened to find a burglar, her husband, stealing Mrs. Mallory''s jewels. Steve escapes but Mary tells the Mallorys that the thief was her husband. She refuses the Mallorys'' suggestion to divorce Steve who then attempts to blackmail Nelson for $10,000, which he plans to divide with a crooked partner. In a fight over the money the partner kills Steve, leaving Mary free to marry Nelson.[2]'
'romance','Peter Ibbetson (Reid) is an orphan raised by his uncle, Colonel Ibbetson. When the Colonel insults his dead mother, Peter attacks him and is ordered from the house. Then the young man runs into his childhood sweetheart, Mimsi (Ferguson), and their romantic feelings are rekindled. Unfortunately, Mimsi has married, but they carry on a love affair in their dreams. Their dream-affair continues over the years, even after Peter kills her husband, the Duke of Towers, and gets a life prison sentence.'
'drama','Madariaga "The Centaur" (Pomeroy Cannon), a harsh but popular Argentine landowner, has a German son-in-law whom he dislikes and a French one whose family he openly favors. He is particularly fond of his grandson Julio (Rudolph Valentino), with whom he often carouses at seedy dives in the Boca district of Buenos Aires. In one of these bars, the movie''s famous tango sequence occurs. A man and a woman (Beatrice Dominguez) are dancing the tango. Julio strides up and asks to cut in. The woman stares at Julio alluringly. The man brushes him off, and they resume dancing. Julio then challenges the man and strikes him, knocking him into some tables and out of the scene. Julio and the woman then dance a dramatic version of the tango that brings cheers from the people in the establishment. Following the dance, the woman sits on Julio''s lap. Madariaga then slides to the floor, drunk. The woman laughs at Madariaga. Julio casts her aside in scorn and helps his grandfather home. Sometime later, Madariaga dies. The extended family breaks up, one half returning to Germany and the other to France. In Paris, Julio enjoys a somewhat shiftless life as a would-be artist and sensation at the local tea dances. He falls in love with Marguerite Laurier (Alice Terry), the unhappy and much younger wife (by an arranged marriage) of Etienne Laurier, a friend of Julio''s father. The affair is discovered, and Marguerite''s husband agrees to give her a divorce to avoid a scandal. It seems as though Julio and Marguerite will be able to marry, but both end up getting caught up in the start of the Great War. Marguerite becomes a nurse in Lourdes. The bravery of Etienne is reported, and he is blinded in battle. Etienne happens to end up at the hospital where she is working, and Marguerite attends to him there. Julio travels to Lourdes to see Marguerite and instead sees her taking care of Etienne. Julio, ashamed of his wastrel life, enlists in the French Army. In the meantime, the German Army overruns Julio''s father Marcelo''s Marne Valley castle in the First Battle of the Marne. Marcelo is forced to host a German general and staff in the castle. One of Marcelo''s three German nephews is amongst the staff and tries to protect him, but Marcelo is arrested after a melee involving an officer''s assault of a woman. Marcello is to be executed in the morning, but his life is spared when the French Army counterattacks in the "Miracle of the Marne". The castle is destroyed by the French counterattack. Four years later Julio has survived and become renowned for his bravery in the trenches at the front. During a mission in no man''s land, he encounters his last surviving German cousin. Moments later, they are both killed by a shell. Back in Paris, Marguerite considers abandoning the blinded Etienne, but Julio''s ghost guides her to continue her care for him. The ending scene shows Marcelo Desnoyers mourning over his son''s grave. The man who lived upstairs from Julio watches over him. Marcelo asks him, "Did you know my son?" The man, with a remorseful expression, lifts his arms, forming the shape of a cross with his body, and says "I knew them all!" He then points to the sky and shows Marcelo the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse riding away into the clouds. With this, the man assures him that "Peace has come—but the Four Horsemen will still ravage humanity—stirring unrest in the world—until all hatred is dead and only love reigns in the heart of mankind."'
'comedy','Buster Keaton is walking by and peers through a barred window while captured murderer "Dead Shot Dan" is having his picture taken. Seeing that the photographer is looking away, Dan moves his head to the side and snaps a picture of Buster without anybody noticing. Thus, when Dan escapes, the wanted posters all show Buster with his hands on the bars. Unaware, Buster moves on to a street corner, where he notices a horseshoe, and kicks it aside. The next man who comes along picks it up and throws it for good luck. Within seconds the man finds a wallet filled with money. After scrambling to find the horseshoe, Buster picks it up and throws over his shoulder. It strikes a policeman, who chases Buster, and soon other officers join the chase. Buster lures them into the back of a truck, locks them in, and escapes. Afterwards, Buster sees a man arguing with a young woman. Buster defends the woman and throws the man to the ground. After walking away, Buster runs into the officers who had chased him earlier. He escapes by hopping onto a train going to a nearby town. Unfortunately for Buster, the town has heard of Dan''s escape, and newspapers and wanted posters with Buster''s picture are everywhere. The townspeople run from him in terror wherever he goes. Buster is once again in the wrong place at the wrong time when the police chief on his patrol is ambushed by a gangster. The gunman''s bullets miss the officer, but the smoking gun ends up in Buster''s hand. He runs from the persistent police chief, inadvertently causing mischief all over the town. While on the run, Buster encounters the same young woman he assisted earlier, who invites him to dinner. At her home he meets her father—he is the police chief, and he furiously chases Buster all over the apartment complex. After the young woman helps Buster escape, the pair emerge onto the street where Buster observes a sign outside a furniture store that says "You furnish the Girl, we furnish the home!" He carries his date into the store. This short contains one of Keaton''s more memorable images: A distant, speeding train approaches the camera, and stops with a close-up of Keaton who has been sitting on the front of the train.'
'comedy','Keaton plays a teller at a successful bank. Unbeknownst to him, the manager at the bank and his gang are planning on pulling off a robbery and hiding in an old house which they have rigged up with booby traps and effects to make it appear to be haunted. After a mishap that afternoon with Keaton getting glue all over the money and himself, he almost thwarts the gang''s robbery but when the owner of the bank walks in and sees Keaton armed with a gun he assumes it was he who tried to rob it. Keaton flees and takes refuge in the old house; however, a troupe of actors from a theatre production are also in the house and are clad in their scary costumes (ghosts, skeletons etc) leading Keaton and the gang of robbers to believe the house actually is haunted. After Keaton has many encounters with the "ghosts" and the house''s booby traps, he discovers the scam and the manager is revealed as being behind the robbery. As the manager is about to be taken away, he hits Keaton over the head and knocks him out before escaping. Next we see Keaton being awoken by two angels at the foot of a large stairway which he ascends all the way to Heaven. He asks Saint Peter to be let in but is denied and is sent all the way down to Hell. However, this is all revealed to be a dream sequence as Keaton regains consciousness in the house seconds later.'
'drama','As described in a film publication,[3] idealistic sculptor (Herbert), who has a "butterfly" wife (Hopper), is working on a nude group from life. He and his model (Munson/Thomas) fall in love but it is not a love to be realized. In the meantime the butterfly wife has become enmeshed in the nets of a dilettante artist (Crane). One night he pulls in the nets and she finds herself in his apartment. When the model realizes the sculptor is searching for his wife, she breaks into the dilettante''s apartment, hides the wife, and plays the role of the reveler, saving the marriage of the man she loves.'
'comedy short','Buster plays a drifter who cons his way into working at an amusement park shooting gallery. Believing Buster is an expert marksman, both the murderous gang the Blinking Buzzards and the man they want to kill end up hiring him. The film ends with a wild chase through a house filled with secret passages.'
'comedy','The Boy meets and marries The Girl. A year later, the two walk down the street with a baby carriage carrying a bottle instead of a baby when they run into The Girl''s brother who asks the couple to do him a favor and babysit his children. They accept and the remainder of the short consists of gags showcasing the difficulties of babysitting children. At the very end, The Boy discovers some knitted baby clothes in a drawer (implying that The Girl is pregnant).'
'crime drama','As described in a film publication summary,[4] James "Jim" Ralston (Barrymore) is a forger who is in love with Nina (Rankin). His first attempt at forgery is upon a dance program, and he forges Nina''s name for the last waltz. He offers to save Nina''s father from ruin by forging a check. He is discovered by the owner of the check, but instead of turning him in, Baron Hartfeld (Randolf) forces Jim to work for him for the next twenty years. Nina is engaged to Louis Percival (MacPherson), but through notes forged by Jim they become estranged. Nina ends up marrying James although she does not love him. As the twenty-year period closes, Jim''s daughter Louise is about to marry the son of an English banker that Jim is about to ruin. Just in time Percival, whom Jim has previously ruined, and Nina discover the forgery that separated them. Jim, realizing that he is trapped, ends it all by sinking a yacht after locking himself and his companions in the cabin.'
'comedy drama','An unknown woman (Edna Purviance) leaves a charity hospital carrying her newborn son. An artist (Carl Miller), the apparent father, is shown with the woman''s photograph. When it falls into the fireplace, he first picks it up, then throws it back in to burn up. The woman decides to abandon her child in the back seat of an expensive automobile with a handwritten note imploring the finder to care for and love the baby. However, the car is stolen. When the two thieves discover the child, they leave him on the street. The Tramp (Charlie Chaplin) finds the baby. Unwilling at first to take on the responsibility, he eventually softens and names the boy John. Elsewhere, the woman has an apparent change of heart and returns for the baby, but is heartbroken and faints upon learning of the baby having been taken away. Five years pass, and the child (Jackie Coogan) becomes the Tramp''s partner in minor crime, throwing stones to break windows that the Tramp, working as a glazier, can then repair. Meanwhile, the woman becomes a wealthy star. She does charity work among the poor to fill the void left by her missing child. By chance, the mother and child cross paths, but do not recognize each other. When the boy becomes sick, a doctor comes to see him. He discovers that the Tramp is not the boy''s father. The Tramp shows him the note left by the mother, but the doctor merely takes it and notifies the authorities. Two men come to take the boy to an orphanage, but after a fight and a chase, the Tramp regains the boy. When the woman comes back to see how the boy is doing, the doctor tells her what has happened, then shows her the note, which she recognizes. Now fugitives, the Tramp and the boy spend the night in a flophouse, but the manager (Bergman), having read of the $1,000 reward offered for the child, takes him to the police station to be united with his ecstatic mother. When the Tramp wakes up, he searches frantically for the missing boy, then returns to doze beside the now-locked doorway to their humble home. In his sleep, he enters "Dreamland," with angels in residence and devilish interlopers. He is awakened by a policeman, who places the Tramp in a car and rides with him to a house. When the door opens, the woman and John emerge, reuniting the elated adoptive father and son. The policeman, who is happy for the family, shakes the Tramp''s hand and leaves, before the woman welcomes the Tramp into her home.'
'comedy drama','In a shabby New York City side street in the mid-1880s, young Cedric Errol lives with his mother (known only as Mrs. Errol or "Dearest") in genteel poverty after the death of his father, Captain Cedric Errol. One day, they are visited by an English lawyer named Havisham with a message from young Cedric''s grandfather, the Earl of Dorincourt, an unruly millionaire who despises the United States and was very disappointed when his youngest son married an American woman. With the deaths of his father''s elder brothers, Cedric has now inherited the title Lord Fauntleroy and is the heir to the earldom and a vast estate. Cedric''s grandfather wants him to live in England and be educated as an English aristocrat. He offers his son''s widow a house and guaranteed income, but he refuses to have anything to do with her, even after she declines his money. However, the Earl is impressed by the appearance and intelligence of his American grandson and is charmed by his innocent nature. Cedric believes his grandfather to be an honorable man and benefactor, and the Earl cannot disappoint him. The Earl therefore becomes a benefactor to his tenants, to their delight, though he takes care to let them know that their benefactor is the child, Lord Fauntleroy. Meanwhile, back in New York, a homeless bootblack named Dick Tipton tells Cedric''s old friend Mr. Hobbs, a New York City grocer, that a few years prior, after the death of his parents, Dick''s older brother Benjamin married an awful woman who got rid of their only child together after he was born and then left. Benjamin moved to California to open a cattle ranch while Dick ended up in the streets. At the same time, a neglected pretender to Cedric''s inheritance appears in England, the pretender''s mother claiming that he is the offspring of the Earl''s eldest son, Cedric, Sr.. The claim is investigated by Dick and Benjamin, who come to England and recognize the woman as Benjamin''s former wife. She flees, and the Tipton brothers and the pretender, Benjamin''s son, do not see her again. Afterwards, Benjamin goes back to his cattle ranch in California where he happily raises his son by himself. The Earl is reconciled to his American daughter-in-law, realizing that she is far superior to the impostor. The Earl planned to teach his grandson how to be an aristocrat. Instead, Cedric teaches his grandfather that an aristocrat should practice compassion towards those dependent on him. The Earl becomes the man Cedric always innocently believed him to be. Cedric is happily reunited with his mother, and Mr. Hobbs, who decides to stay to help look after Cedric.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] raised aboard a ship, Jacques Leroi (Barrymore) has never seen a woman until after the death of his father, a man who had been disappointed in love. As the only heir, the will stipulates that he is to remain on board until he reaches 25 years of age. On his 25th birthday, he arrives in New York City to consult his lawyer, and meets the gold-digging Madge Vance (Nilsson), who is being courted by John Carson (Sherry). While off the coast of Florida on his yacht with Miss Vance, Jacques has the captain marry them and they go on a long cruise. Upon returning to New York City Jacques discovers that, according to the will, he will not inherit anything until he is 30 years old if he marries in haste. Madge then leaves him. Jacques becomes despondent, and agrees to attempt to cross the Pacific Ocean in a dirigible balloon with the patentee of a new form of gas. The blimp fails to rise above the air currents and he is forced to land on a small island. There he comes upon the strange occupants of the island, people who have been saved from various shipwrecks. They all wear Greek style clothing, eat at restaurants free of charge, and no one works. He falls in love with the native girl Mavis (Moore), but confesses that he has a wife and must return to the United States. The islanders loan him a boat, and he soon returns to New York City, where he discovers that Madge has become engaged to John Carson. Jacques and John await for Madge to keep an appointment only to receive word that she has eloped with a third man. Jacques is elated and returns to the island for the company of his beautiful native maiden.'
'drama','Based upon a summary in a film publication,[2] Angela (Pickford), an Italian girl, bids good-bye to her second brother, who is the youngest, as he goes off to join the troops. Then comes news that her older brother has been killed in the war. Giovanni (Bloomer), who loves Angela, tries to comfort her, and then he too is called. Left alone, Angela is made keeper of the lighthouse. Joseph (Thomson) arrives and says that he is an American and a deserter. They are later secretly married. One night he has Angela flash him a "love" signal using the lighthouse. The next morning an Italian ship carrying wounded men is reported as having been destroyed at midnight, the hour when the signal was sent. Angela steals some chocolate from Tony (Regas) for Joseph to take with him. When she arrives home, she hears Joseph murmur in his sleep "Gott mitt uns," and it dawns on her that her husband is a German spy. Tony traces the theft to her, and after he says that her wounded brother had been on the ship, she realizes that it was the signal that sent her brother to his death. She gives up Joseph, who still proclaims his love for her. Joseph breaks away from his jailers and plunges over a cliff to his death. Later, with her and Joseph''s baby, Angela is happy with her old sweetheart Giovanni, who has returned from the war blind.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] John Trott (Hughes) overcomes the bad influence of a wretched home, becomes successful as a contracting engineer, and marries the beautiful Tilly Whaley (Bellamy). They settle down to a happy existence in their own cottage. Then a specter of his past appears, a drunken mother, and during his absence his wife is rushed home by her sanctimonious father Ezekiel Whaley (Brownlee) and is granted a divorce. John, accompanied by his foster sister, goes to a distant city. En route, the train is wrecked and he reports himself and the child killed. His wife marries a former sweetheart. Years later, John returns to the town and old love is renewed. The jealous husband attempts to kill John but is whipped in the encounter. The husband then decides to kill himself and is successful, despite John''s valiant attempt to stop him. The couple are then reunited in their "cottage of delight."'
'comedy','A hapless hero (Laurel), who after being thrown out onto the street for not paying his rent, is befriended by a stray dog. The dog and young man then (literally) bumps into a robber (Hardy) who is holding someone up. The bandit, who in the process has accidentally placed his victim’s money into the young man''s back pocket, turns from his first victim, who runs off, to rob Stan. The robber then steals the money he had already stolen, from the bemused young man who had thought he was broke. The young man and the dog escape and the dog makes friends with a poodle. The poodle’s lady owner (Florence Gillet) persuades the young man to enter his dog into the local dog show. When his entry is refused, the young man sneaks in anyway, but is quickly thrown out, followed by all the dogs in the show. The young man spots the poodle’s owner outside looking for her dog and offers his dog in its place. She accepts and in turn offers him a lift to her home. This scene is witnessed by her jealous boyfriend, who happens to bump into the bandit and together the two plot their revenge on the young man. At the lady''s house, the young man is introduced to the boyfriend and the bandit, in disguise as the Count de Chease of Switzerland. The boyfriend proposes and is refused while the bandit attempts to shoot the young man only to have the gun jam. The boyfriend chases the lady around the house while the bandit tries to blow up the young man with a stick of dynamite. The dog comes to the rescue, chasing the bandit and the boyfriend into the garden with the dynamite and leaving them to be blown up.'
'romantic comedy','As summarized in a film publication,[4] a prologue, which explains where the author got her idea for the story, shows Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. When the serpent tells Eve to bite the apple, Adam takes it away from her. The serpent then tells her to go into hysterics and Adam will give her the apple. Shifting to the modern story, Mrs. Orrin (Effie Shannon), Eve''s (Constance Talmadge) mother, goes into hysterics at the thought of losing her daughter. Mrs. Orrin and Mrs. Merchant (Katharine Kaelred), who lives with them, have decided that Eve will marry Mrs. Merchant''s son Henry (George LeGuere), an effeminate youngster with rimmed glasses. Fearing her mother''s nerves, Eve is willing to marry Henry, so the four of them go to Mama Orrin''s birthplace, where the wedding is scheduled to take place on her birthday. During the stay at the hotel Mama has one of her "attacks" and Dr. Harmon (Kenneth Harlan) is called in. He soon discovers the exact trouble and orders Mrs. Orrin to bed with instructions that she not even see her daughter. Mrs. Orrin disobeys these orders and then Eve''s nerves give way, causing a second visit by the doctor. He takes Eve away from the mother, but after Henry accuses the doctor of being a fortune seeker, the doctor refuses to have anything to do with Eve. Finally, Eve''s eyes are opened and she uses a "treat ''em rough" theory on her mother. Besides winning the love of her doctor, she cures her mother of her hysterics.'
'drama','As described in a film publication,[5] several years earlier Mrs. Sheldon (McDowell) had been deserted by her husband. She brought up her son Robert (Hughes) in the belief that his father was dead. His desire to make good in the city leads his mother to send him to his father, Willard Thatcher (Kilgour). Unknown to him, Robert is now working for his own father, and all goes well until he learns of his father''s nefarious financial schemes. They end up fighting, and Willard tells Robert that while he is married to his mother, Robert is not his son. Willard is accidentally killed, and on the evidence of Fan Baxter (Blythe), Willard''s woman, Robert is condemned. A last minute forced confession from Fan by Robert''s mother saves the day.'
'comedy','Harold works in an office on a tall building next to his girlfriend Mildred (Mildred Davis). He assumes they will be married, but overhears her talking to a man who says to her, "Of course I will marry you." Distraught, he decides to commit suicide, blindfolding himself and setting up a gun which will fire when he pulls a string attached to the trigger. But after putting on the blindfold he accidentally knocks over a bulb which pops, and he assumes he has shot himself. At that moment, a girder from the next door construction site swings into his office, lifting him and his chair outside. Pulling off the blindfold, the first thing he sees is a sculpture high on his building which he takes to be an angel, and he assumes he is in Heaven. However a jazz band on an adjacent rooftop garden soon disabuses him of that notion, and he realises he is high above the city. After several perilous escapades high on the construction site, he finally makes it to the ground, only to realise that the man Mildred was talking to was her clergyman brother, who has agreed to officiate at their wedding.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] the Brandeis operate a little dry goods store in Winnebago, Wisconsin. Ferdinand (Davidson) and Molly (Marvin) are the parents and Fanny (Radom / Scott) and Theodore (Lee / Davidson) are the daughter and son, with Aloysius (Hoy) an adopted Irish youth. Theodore shows talent for the violin and under Herr Bauer (Edwards) he practices several hours each day. Schabelitz, a famous violinist, during a concert tour hears Theodore play and suggests to the Brandeis that he be sent to Europe to study. Times are poor, but Molly with the assistance of Rabbi Thalman (Warren) persuades "Papa" Brandeis that it should be done, and the Boy is sent. Molly works the store, does the housework, and looks after the children, happy in the thought that some day her boy will become famous and rescue her from drudgery. By and by Papa dies, and Fanny, grown to womanhood, denies herself all pleasures such as a new dress in order to maintain Theodore at Dresden. What they do not know is that her brother''s frequent requests for money are to keep him and his wife, whom he married the first year he was abroad, from starvation. One day when Fanny is returning home from skating, the only pleasure she allows herself, she encounters tragedy in discovering her mother dead. Fanny breaks down, and unburdens her pent-up feelings. Left to her own resources she goes to Chicago and gains employment in a mail order house. Theodore, having been deserted by his wife, returns home with his baby. They take up their abode with Fanny, and she becomes attached to the youngster. Through her influence with her employer Michael Fenger (Holmes) to have Theodore give a concert and looks forward to the event as a personal triumph. However, on the evening of the event Theodore receives message from his wife asking him to return to her. He leaves a note to Fanny pinned to the telegram stating what he has done.'
'comedy','A young woman, who is employed as a nanny to a lonesome child named Dolly, is preparing to take a vacation which will include a long-awaited reunion with her childhood sweetheart. Her employers are a busy couple who have no time for their small daughter, so the nanny decides—without seeking their permission—to take Dolly with her on her vacation. Meanwhile, the young man she is to meet with races through the countryside by automobile on his way to his appointment. He crashes into a barn, loses his money to a tramp, and must complete his journey riding as a stowaway on the undercarriage of a train. After the couple meet, they and the child board a train. The woman has tickets for herself and Dolly, but the man has no ticket and no money. The young woman discovers to her horror that her young charge''s father is on the train. She does not want him to see her with Dolly, so she leaves the little girl with the young man and joins her employer in a separate coach. The young man is not an experienced babysitter, and caring for the child poses many challenges for him, especially as he must also evade the conductor. The story ends happily: not only does Dolly''s father approve of the young woman taking the little girl with her on her vacation, the young woman also discovers that her sweetheart is the man her employer was traveling to meet, as he has recently hired him for an important position.'
'comedy','Based upon a summary in a film publication,[4] Charlie (Fairbanks) has a girlfriend Estrell (De La Motte) who has a theory that if rich people would take a number of poor children into their homes each day, the environment would cause the children to grow up properly. Since Estrell does not know any of these rich people, Charlie offers to arrange a meeting. However, Charlie thinks impostors will do as well as the real rich people, so first he hires some men who turn out to be burglars and gamblers. Then he tries using dummies, but Estell is not fooled and becomes indignant. A wealthy man working as a reporter goes to investigate a report of a man dragging a body which turns out to be Charlie moving a dummy, allowing Charlie to finally meet someone rich. Estell is satisfied and agrees to marry him.'
'melodrama','Just before the French Revolution, Henriette takes her close adopted sister Louise to Paris in the hope of finding a cure for her blindness. She promises Louise that she will not marry until Louise can look upon her husband to approve him. Lustful aristocrat de Praille (whose carriage kills a child, enraging peasant father, Forget-not) meets the two outside Paris. Taken by the virginal Henriette''s beauty, he has her abducted and brought to his estate where a lavish party is being held, leaving Louise helpless in the big city. An honorable aristocrat, the Chevalier de Vaudrey helps Henriette to escape de Praille and his guests by successfully fighting a duel with him. The scoundrel Mother Frochard, seeing an opportunity to make money, tricks Louise into her underground house to be kept prisoner. Unable to find Louise with the help of the Chevalier, Henriette rents a room, but before leaving her de Vaudrey comforts and kisses the distressed woman. Later, Henriette gives shelter to admirable politician Danton, who after an attack by Royalist spies following a public speech falls for her. As a result, she runs foul of the radical revolutionary Robespierre, a friend of Danton. Mother Frochard forces Louise into begging. Meanwhile, de Vaudrey proposes to Henriette and she refuses. After expressing love for each other, he promises Henriette that Louise will be found. King Louis XVI orders Henriette to be arrested, due to his disapproval of de Vaudrey''s choice of wife, and the Chevalier is also sent away while his aunt visits Henriette. During the meeting, Louise is heard singing outside, where Frochard has told her to walk blindly and sing. Henriette calls out from her upstairs balcony, but the panicked Louise is dragged off by Frochard and Henriette is arrested and sent to a women''s prison. Louise and Frochard''s begging continues with the other two Frochards, and before long the Revolution begins. A battle between the Royalist soldiers and the people allied with the police, who are successful, results in aristocrats being killed and the prisoners of the "Tyrants" (including Henriette) being freed. A people''s ''rag-tag'' government is formed, and Forget-not takes his revenge against de Praille. Robespierre and Forget-not send Henriette and her lover, the Chevalier de Vaudrey, to the guillotine, for hiding de Vaudrey, an aristocrat, who returned to Paris to find her. However, Danton manages to obtain a pardon for them. After a race through the streets of Paris he just manages to save Henriette and offers her to the Chevalier, when the two orphans unite. A doctor restores Louise''s sight, she approves marriage between Henriette and the Chevalier, and a better-organized Republic forms in France.'
'comedy','The film is set up as a series of humorous tricks on the audience, with constant doubling, and in which things are rarely what they at first seem to be. It opens with Keaton attending a variety show. In this first sequence, Keaton plays beside him and remarks, "This fellow Keaton seems to be the whole show." This was a gibe at one of Keaton''s contemporaries, Thomas Ince, who credited himself generously in his film productions.[1] In interviews with Kevin Brownlow,[2] Keaton claims he gave the director''s credit to Cline mainly because he did not want to appear too Ince-like himself: "Having kidded things like that, I hesitated to put my own name on as a director and writer." This elaborate trick-photography sequence turns out to be only a dream when Joe Roberts rouses Keaton from bed. The bedroom then turns out to be not a bedroom, but a set on a stage. The second half of the film features Keaton''s character falling for a girl who happens to be a twin. He has difficulty telling the twin who likes him from the one who does not. An uncredited Virginia Fox plays one of the twins. Edward F. Cline co-wrote the production and appears, uncredited, as a monkey trainer, whose monkey Keaton impersonates onstage after accidentally letting the animal escape.'
'drama','As summarized in a film publication,[3] David Marsh (Bowers), an inventor, is in love with Ann Hardy (Novak), but his brother Lewis also loves her. Lewis previously loved Rose Merritt (Frederick), but betrayed her and has cast her off. When he sees the success of David with Ann, Lewis reproaches his brother and threatens to end his own life unless he can marry Ann. David, overcome with these events, sinks into an armchair and falls asleep. In his dreams, the figure of Fate (George) appears and tells him that no matter which road he takes, he will find happiness with Ann and will marry her only.Then follow three dreams, one taking place in the North, one in the West, and one in his home town. When he awakes, he finds that Lewis was greeted with the same apparition and has decided to marry Rose, while David marries Ann.'
'comedy','"The Boy" (Lloyd) is an idle playboy and heir to $20,000,000, relaxing at an exclusive resort. When he sees "The Girl" (Mildred Davis), surrounded by a flock of admirers, he suddenly asks her to marry him. Taken aback, she sends him to get the approval of her father, a tough, hardworking steel magnate. The girl''s father knows and disapproves of the Boy''s indolence, and demands that he first get a job to prove that he can do something. The Boy sees a recruiting poster and applies to join the United States Navy. When the magnate decides to take a long cruise on his yacht, he tells his daughter to bring along her friends. She invites the Boy, but he finds he cannot get out of his three-year enlistment. Aboard ship, he makes an enemy of intimidating sailor "Rough-House" O''Rafferty (Noah Young), but when O''Rafferty throws a box at the Boy and strikes a passing officer, the Boy steps up and accepts the blame. He and O''Rafferty then become good friends. The Girl and her friends stop off at the port of Agar Shahar Khairpura, the "City of a Thousand Rascals", in the country of Khairpura-Bhandanna, to sightsee, just as the Boy and O''Rafferty get shore leave there. The Girl is delighted to see the Boy and rushes into his arms. However, she has also attracted the attention of the Maharajah of Khairpura-Bhandanna (Dick Sutherland). The potentate has her kidnapped and taken to his palace. The Boy rushes to her rescue and single-handedly manages to outwit the Maharajah and his guards and escape with the Girl. Later, the Boy uses signal flags from his ship to ask with the Girl on her father''s yacht, "Will you?" With her father''s approval, she sends a signal back, "I will".'
'adventure','Captain John Nelson (Hobart Bosworth) and his crew hunt whales on the high seas. The captain is an angry man, having never recovered from his wife''s leaving him for another man 20 years prior. When the ship comes to port, Tom (Emory Johnson), a young man, joins the crew as a lookout. He is distraught as well, having been jilted by his fiancée. Back on the seas, the ship''s inexperienced crew mistakes the water supply as a leak, and pumps it overboard. The captain rations the remaining water, and stores it in his quarters. The crew mutinies. From the crow''s nest, Tom spots a nearby island, and comes down to tell the captain while the crew is asleep. The captain makes the Tom the first mate, and they steer the ship to the nearby island. The island is inhabited by two survivors of an earlier shipwreck, one of whom is beautiful young Blossom (Bessie Love). The survivors are brought back to the ship, where the captain resists letting them board. The survivors promise to work on the ship, and he reluctantly agrees to let them travel. Blossom learns that the captain''s family name is Nelson, and says that her mother had the same name. The captain realizes that Blossom is the daughter of his wife, but assumes Blossom''s father is another man. Blossom tells him that she never knew her father. During a storm at sea, the captain finds Blossom''s Bible, which contains a note from her mother saying that she loved him all along. The captain realizes that Blossom is his daughter, and they are reconciled. Blossom and Tom fall in love.'
'comedy','Max Linder returns home drunk after his bachelor party. The next morning, he is awakened by a loud noise. His valet John, while chasing his pretty maid, has broken his mirror. John claims Mary, the maid, dropped a napkin. By the time Max drags himself out of bed, Mary has cleared away the broken glass and John has gotten Max''s chef to dress just like their employer. Then, when Max looks into the non-existent glass, the chef mimics his every action. Max finally realizes he is being tricked, but while he is in the other room, John sneaks in a repairman to fix the mirror. Thus when Max flings something at what he thinks is an imposter, he breaks the mirror himself, much to his surprise. Now he fears he has brought seven years bad luck on himself (a well-known superstition). He goes to see Betty, his fiancée. While waiting, he has her maid (a psychic) read his palm. She warns him that she sees danger in the form of a dog, so he takes Betty''s small pet and sticks it in a vase. When Betty sees what he has done, she breaks up with him. She reconsiders and asks him to come back, but when he does, he has to wait for her once again. He first puts on a record, then dances with her maid, and finally starts wildly playing the piano. His nonchalant behavior infuriates Betty, and she sends him packing again. Max asks his friend to go see Betty to try to patch things up, but his friend wants Betty for himself. He lies to her, telling her Max has decided to marry one of his old girlfriends. When Betty seeks some way to obtain revenge, the friend suggests she marry him. She assents. His hopes dashed, Max decides to take a train trip. He is robbed at the station, so he sneaks aboard. The conductor spots him, though, and a chase ensues. Max gets off at the next station. The station agent has taken an unauthorized break, leaving his daughter in charge. Max disguises himself as the agent, inadvertently saving the man''s job when the conductor asks for him. After more hijinks, he manages to reboard the train, leaving the pesky conductor behind. The conductor, however, wires ahead, and Max is arrested at the next stop. He gets away at first, jumping on an elephant and loitering in a cage full of lions, but is eventually jailed. By chance, when he is brought before the judge, he sees Betty and his false friend there to get married. He and Betty reconcile.'
'drama, adventure','In the North Africa town of Biskra, headstrong Lady Diana Mayo (Agnes Ayres) refuses a marriage proposal because she believes it would be the end of her independence. Against her brother''s wishes, she is planning a month-long trip into the desert, escorted only by natives. When Diana goes to the local casino, she is informed it has been appropriated for the evening by an important sheik, and that none but Arabs may enter. Annoyed at being told what she cannot do, and her curiosity piqued, Diana borrows an Arab dancer''s costume and sneaks in. Inside, she finds men gambling for new wives. When she is selected to be the next prize, she resists. Sheik Ahmed Ben Hassan (Rudolph Valentino) intervenes, then realizes she is white. Amused, he sends her away. Afterward, Mustapha Ali (Charles Brinley) informs the Sheik she is the woman he has been hired to guide tomorrow. The Sheik hatches a plan. Early the next morning, he sneaks into her room and tampers with the bullets in her revolver as she is sleeping. As her brother leaves her to her desert excursion, she assures him he will see her in London next month. The Sheik and his men come upon Diana riding alone. She tries to flee while shooting at the Sheik, but he easily captures her. Back at his encampment, he orders her about. She is unused to such treatment, but the Sheik tells her she will learn and demands she dress like a woman (she is wearing pants) for dinner. Diana tries again to escape, this time into a raging sand storm. The Sheik saves her from certain death, and tells her she will learn to love him. Later, he finds Diana alone in her quarters weeping. The Sheik considers forcing himself upon her, but decides against it and calls for a serving girl, Zilah (Ruth Miller). Zilah offers her a hug. Diana accepts, and pours out her tears in Zilah''s arms. After a week, the Sheik is delighted by the news that his close friend from his days in Paris, where he was educated, is coming for a visit. Diana is dismayed at the thought of being seen in Arab dress by a Westerner, but the Sheik does not understand her shame. He does, however, return her gowns before his friend comes so she can wear them to dinner. When she is introduced to writer and doctor Raoul St. Hubert (Adolphe Menjou), Diana''s spirit is nearly broken. He befriends her and reprimands the Sheik for his callous treatment of her. The Sheik returns her Western clothing, though he refuses to release her. When Raoul is called away to tend to an injured man, Diana shows concern that it might be the Sheik. Seeing this from hiding, the Sheik is elated that she may be warming up to him at last. He gives Diana her gun back, telling her he trusts her. Diana is allowed to go into the desert under the watchful eye of the Sheik''s French valet Gaston (Lucien Littlefield). She escapes. Making her way across the sands, she spots a caravan, unaware that it belongs to the bandit Omair (Walter Long). Fortunately, the Sheik and his men reach her first. The Sheik reveals to Raoul he is in love with Diana; his friend convinces him to let her go. Meanwhile, Diana is allowed out once more. She playfully writes "I love you Ahmed" in the sand. Then Omair''s band captures her, killing her guards and leaving the wounded Gaston for dead. When the Sheik goes looking for Diana, he sees her message, then learns from Gaston who has abducted her. He gathers his men to attack Omair''s stronghold. Omair tries to force himself on Diana, but is almost stabbed by one of his women. Then the Sheik and his men sweep in. After a long fight, the Sheik kills Omair, but is himself gravely injured. Raoul tends to him and tells Diana he has a chance. She sits and holds the Sheik''s hand. When she remarks that his hand is big for an Arab, Raoul reveals that the Sheik is not one. His father was British and his mother Spanish. They died in the desert, and their child was rescued and raised by the old Sheik; when the old man died, Ahmed returned to rule the tribe. When Ahmed wakes up, Diana confesses her love.'
'comedy','As described in a film publication,[4] the story involves an underworld plot to defraud givers to a charity for French orphans. Jenny Dark (Johnstone), who greatly admires Joan d''Arc, supposedly the wife of a French officer, at a banquet collects $200,000 for the French orphans. Jenny''s father Jim (Hatch) is a plain clothes man, so the crooks do not get away. However, when Jim goes to arrest the impostor, he finds his daughter Jenny in the room with him. However, soon all is explained.'
'drama','While discussing heredity, a man recalls the story of two orphan girls to a pair of cohorts at a ball. Angel (Carmen) is adopted by crooks who teach her to steal, while Evelyn (Valli) is the criminally inclined girl adopted by a wealthy family. When Angel steals a watch from a passenger on the train, the man refuses to press charges and enlists her help in his confidence scheme in Havana. Evelyn is engaged to marry the promising author Robert Ellington (Austin), but after a quarrel, the writer goes to Havana and meets and falls for Angel. Ellington is scheduled to leave on a ship but gives his ticket to Johnson (Albertson), the secret agent and con man. Angel watches tearfully as the boat pulls away before Ellington reveals he loves her, and the two are left in happiness. The film ends as the story teller turning and pointing out the couple dancing at the ball.[2]'
'drama','The Sky Pilot (Bowers) arrives in a small rough-and-tumble cattle town in the north, intent on bringing religion to its tough residents. At first they reject him, but in time he wins the residents over with his prowess. A plot to steal cattle is uncovered and disrupted. Gwen, daughter of the "Old Timer," is injured in a stampede, loses her ability to walk, but recovers thanks to the power of love.'
'western','As described in a film magazine,[2] easy going rancher Jeff Bransford (Gibson) returns to his ancestral acres and finds them heavily mortgaged and about to be foreclosed and the hired men defended them with guns. He tries to borrow money to satisfy the mortgage but is unsuccessful. That night a robbery is committed on a neighboring farm with five thousand dollars stolen from Major Parker (MacQuarrie), and suspicion is thrown upon Jeff. After much hard riding and several stiff fights, the real culprits are apprehended and Jeff is vindicated. Parker had intended to loan Jeff some money to help with his difficulties. In return, Jeff saves the married Elinor Parker (Brunette) from running away with a worthless scamp and causing a scandal.'
'drama','David Kinemon, youngest son of West Virginia tenant farmers, longs to be treated like a man by his family and neighbors, especially Esther Hatburn, the pretty girl who lives with her grandfather on a nearby farm. However, he is continually reminded that he is still a boy, "tol''able" enough, but no man. David eventually gets a chance to prove himself when outlaw Iscah Hatburn and his sons Luke and "Little Buzzard", distant cousins of the Kinemon''s Hatburn neighbors, move into the Hatburn farm, against the will of Esther and her grandfather. Esther initially tells David not to interfere, saying he is no match for her cousins. Later, the cousins kill David''s pet dog and cripple his older brother while the latter is delivering mail and taking passengers to town in his hack. Out of a sense of honor, David''s father intends to visit vigilante justice on the Hatburn cousins rather than rely on the local sheriff, but is prevented by an abrupt and fatal heart attack. David is determined to go after the Hatburns in his father''s place, but his mother pleads with him, arguing that he will surely die and that with his father dead and brother crippled, the household, including his brother''s wife and infant son, depends on him. The now fatherless Kinemon family is turned out of the farm and are forced to move into a small house in town. David asks for his brother''s old job of driving the hack, but is told he is too young. However, he does find work at the general store tugh. Later, when the hack''s regular driver is fired for drunkenness, David finally has a chance to drive the hack. He loses the mailbag near the Hatburn farm, where it is found by Luke. David goes to the Hatburn farm to demand the mailbag. He is refused and gets into an argument with the cousins, during which he is shot in the arm. David then shoots Iscah and the younger son and later, after a prolonged fight with the older brother (meant to recall the story of David and Goliath), emerges victorious. Esther flees for help and makes it to the village, telling that David has been killed. As a crowd prepares to go look for David, he arrives in the hack with the bag of mail, badly injured, and collapses. It is clear to all that David, no longer merely "tol''able", is a real man and a hero.'
'romance','As described in a film magazine,[3] after her drunken husband Tom Eastman (Gerard) brings home three cabaret women, Lucretia (Lake) can no longer bear the abuse and turns to arctic explorer Frank Underwood (Valentino), who has long loved her and promised to come whenever she needs his help. Urging her husband to become a man and do something worth wile, Lucretia goes with him to the North seas in search of a treasure ship. Tom becomes panic stricken and turns back, while she goes on with Frank, who is on the same mission in his own ship. The two fight against temptation and win, and when their ship is destroyed on the ice they set off to civilization with a dog sled. They are saved by a government cruiser.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[4] Josephine Gerson (Talmadge) is selected by the woman''s party as their candidate for mayor and her fiance accepts the "machine" nomination, and their engagement ends. In her conflict with the boss of the opposition party Jim Bradley (Harlan), mutual love develops with each determined to win. In an election speech as novel as it is effective, Josephine wins the male voters of the pivotal ninth ward. However, her campaign''s neglect of the female vote results in her defeat at the polls by 27 votes. Natural gloom at the loss is dispelled when Bradley announces that he has been won over by her policies and appoints her constituents to vital offices, and a happy ending results.'
'drama','Captain Fitzgerald (Alec B. Francis), a retired guardsman on a modest pension, has to support three daughters: Theodora (Swanson) and her older half-sisters. Theodora''s sisters pin their hopes on her marrying a wealthy man. One day, Theodora goes out on a rowboat off the coast of Dorset and falls into the water. She is rescued by Lord Hector Bracondale (Valentino). He is young, handsome and wealthy, but "not the marrying kind". Out of a sense of duty to her beloved father, she reluctantly agrees to wed the middle-aged, short, stout Josiah Brown (Robert Bolder), a former grocer''s assistant who is now a multi-millionaire. They honeymoon in the Alps. By coincidence, Bracondale stops at the same inn. Rich American widow Jane McBride (Mabel Van Buren) persuades the young bride to accompany her on a climbing excursion. Theodora slips and dangles precariously by her safety line over a cliff. Bracondale appears and climbs down to her, but they are too heavy for the others to pull up. Bracondale has them lower him and Theodora to a ledge below. While they wait for more help to arrive, Theodora tells Bracondale (who does not initially recognize her) where they last met. They meet a third time in Paris, and finally acknowledge their love for each other. However, Theodora refuses to run away with Bracondale. Bracondale strives to do the right thing. He asks his sister, Lady Anningford (June Elvidge), to befriend Theodora. Lady Anningford invites the Browns to her country estate. Bracondale, however, cannot stay away. He tries once again to persuade Theodora to change her mind, without success. Meanwhile, Josiah is persuaded by another guest, renowned explorer Sir Lionel Grey, to fund his dangerous expedition. Bracondale leaves, and Josiah is called away on business. Theodora writes a letter to each; to Bracondale, she declares her love, but stresses once more that it cannot be fulfilled. Morella Winmarleigh (Gertrude Astor), who desires Bracondale for herself, secretly opens the letters and, after perusing them, switches them. After Bracondale reads the message meant for Josiah, he rushes to stop Josiah from reading his, but is too late. Josiah accuses Bracondale of stealing his wife, but the nobleman denies that Theodora has been unfaithful. After further consideration, Josiah decides to put his wife''s happiness ahead of his own and joins Grey''s expedition to Northern Africa. His death makes it possible for the young lovers to be together.'
'horror','The film is a contemporary (1920s, though the book was published in 1897) picture that takes place in New York City. The story involves a mad scientist who turns circumstances on a young man to do his bidding. Robert Sandell (Raymond McKee), despondent over his bad luck as a writer and his mother''s declining health, attacks and attempts to rob a theatergoer, Dr. Lamb (Lon Chaney), a sinister, fanatical physician living in the suburbs of New York. Lamb takes the boy to his home, learns his story, and agrees to perform an operation on Mrs. Sandell (Virginia True Boardman) on one consideration – that Robert shall, at the end of eight days, deliver himself to the doctor to do with as he will, for experimental purposes. Frantic with worry over his dying mother''s condition, Robert agrees. Mother and son take up their residence in the Lamb home, where Robert is closely watched, not only by the doctor, but by his wife (Fontaine La Rue) and a grotesque hunchback (Lon Chaney, in a dual role), whom Robert learns afterwards is the result of one of the doctor''s experiments. Dr. Lamb, anxious to keep his hold on Robert, not only gives him spending money, but assists him in having his book published through Wytcherly, head of a publishing company. Robert meets Wytcherly''s daughter Angela (Jacqueline Logan) and promptly falls in love. In the meantime, the days are slipping by to the time of the experiment. Robert has been warned by Mrs. Lamb and the hunchback that great danger threatens him. At dawn, they show him as a warning a mysterious underground vault in which is a complete operating room and a tunnel of cages in which are strange prisoners – previously failed experiments of Lamb''s. In agony and fear, Robert goes to the physician and tries to buy himself out of the bargain, for his book has been published and he is now a successful writer. There is yet one day before the time limit is up, but the doctor, realizing his victim may try to escape, seizes him and straps him to the operating table. He is rescued by Mrs. Lamb, the hunchback releases a cage door, and the doctor is himself brought to a horrible end at the hands of an ape-man wrecked mentally by the doctor''s experiments. Finally freed from the terms of his "blind bargain", Robert returns to his home to learn that his writings have met with success and that Angela waits for him at the marriage ceremony.'
'drama','Juan Gallardo (Valentino), a village boy born into poverty, grows up to become one of the greatest matadors in Spain. He marries a friend from his childhood, the beautiful and virtuous Carmen (Lee), but after he achieves fame and fortune he finds himself drawn to Doña Sol (Naldi), a wealthy, seductive widow. They embark on a torrid affair with rather sadomasochistic overtones, but Juan, feeling guilty over his betrayal of Carmen, tries to free himself of Doña Sol. Furious at being rejected, she exposes their affair to Carmen and Juan''s mother, seemingly destroying his marriage. Growing more and more miserable and dissipated, Juan becomes reckless in the arena. He is eventually killed in a bullfight but does manage to reconcile with Carmen moments before he dies. There is also a subplot involving a local outlaw whose career is paralleled to Juan''s throughout the film by the village philosopher: Juan''s fatal injury in the bullring comes moments after the outlaw is shot by the police.'
'comedy drama','The father of a quirky family, the Wheelers, hires an ex-soldier, Clarence (Reid), as a handyman. Clarence falls for the family''s governess, Violet (Ayres). Mrs. Wheeler (Williams) suspects that Violet and her husband (Martindel) are carrying on, and Mrs. Wheeler begins to develop an attraction to Clarence. Hubert Stem (Menjou), Mr. Wheeler''s avaricious private secretary, one day shows Mr. Wheeler an article about Charles Short, an army deserter, and insists that Clarence is in actuality Charles Short.[4]'
'comedy','Buster wants to marry a girl, but her father disapproves. Therefore Keaton vows he will go the city and get a job, or commit suicide. He takes several jobs (janitor, employee in an animal hospital, street cleaner, extra in a theatrical play,...) which all disastrously go wrong. In the final scenes he gets stuck inside a riverboat paddle wheel, where he has to run to get out of it. In the end he returns to his girlfriend''s father, but since he failed in every way he is given a gun to shoot himself. Buster however manages to miss himself and is therefore kicked out the window by the girl''s father.'
'comedy','The Sick-Little-Well-Girl (played by Mildred Davis) has been wrapped in cotton wool all her life. At the sign of the slightest sniffle or cough, she is packed off to bed and each time, the stuffy (and expensive) Dr Ludwig von Saulsbourg (Eric Mayne) is called to attend to her. In another town lives Doctor Jackson (Harold Lloyd), a friendly and altruistic doctor who is liked by everyone in town. He utilises common sense when curing the citizens of any ills. Soon, Doctor Jack discovers that von Saulsbourg has been playing on The Sick-Little-Well-Girl''s non-illness, charging the girl''s father exorbitant amounts of money to "treat" her. With Jack''s intervention, von Saulsbourg is sent packing.'
'drama','An Indian maid and American girl (both played by Florence Vidor) share a single soul which shifts between them each day when they are awake.[3]'
'comedy','Keaton plays a botany student who is accidentally awarded an electrical engineering degree. He then attempts to wire a home using many gadgets. The man to whom the degree should have been awarded then exacts revenge by rewiring those gadgets to cause mayhem.'
'drama','In Sicily, Count Martinello is assassinated by Cardi and his mafia group on what would have been his wedding day. His bride to be, Countess Margherita, gets word of this from American Norvin Blake, who fails to protect her from Cardi, who wants her for his own. Later, Margherita and Norvin meet in New Orleans, where he declares his love for her. Recognizing Gian Norcone as the group leader that killed the count, Norvin has him arrested after getting into a fight with him. Caesar Maruffi, a supposed friend and admirer who suits Margherita, is discovered to be Cardi. In the middle of a fight between Cardi and Norvin, Cardi is stabbed by Lucrezia, Margherita''s maid. In the end, Norvin finally wins Margherita.[2][3]'
'drama','The silent drama tells the story of a man who names himself Count Wladislaw Sergius Karamzin (von Stroheim) in order to seduce rich women and extort money from them. He has set up shop in Monte Carlo and his partners in crime (and possible lovers) are his cousins: "Princess" Vera Petchnikoff (Busch) and "Her Highness" Olga Petchnikoff (George). Count Karamzin begins his latest scam on the unworldly wife of an American envoy, Helen Hughes (DuPont), even though her husband is nearby. He attempts to charm her, planning to eventually fleece her of her money. She is easily impressed by his faux-aristocratic glamor, to the chagrin of her dull but sincere husband. Karamzin also has his eye on two other women, Maruschka (Fuller), a maid at the hotel, and Marietta (Polo) the mentally disabled daughter of one of his criminal associates (Gravina), seeing them both as easy sexual prey. In the climax of the film Maruschka, the maid he has seduced and abandoned, goes mad and sets fire to a building in which Karamzin and Mrs Hughes are trapped. Karamzin jumps to save himself, leaving Mrs Hughes in danger. She is saved, and is looked after by her devoted husband. Karamzin''s public display of selfish cowardice ensures he is shunned by the high society he craves to be accepted by. Humiliated, he tries to restore his pride by seducing Marietta, the mentally disabled girl. Her father kills him, dumping his body in a sewer. Karamzin''s "cousins" are arrested for being imposters and con-artists.'
'comedy','The grandma''s boy is a timid coward who cannot muster courage to woo his girl and is afraid of his rival. His loving grandma gives him a magic charm from the Civil War that had been used by his grandfather, which gives him the courage to capture a town criminal and win the girl. The "magic charm" turns out to be the handle of her umbrella and his grandma was pretending it was magical all along.'
'crime comedy','When a smart aleck street kid''s father, a policeman, is killed in the line of duty, the boy turns over a new leaf and goes to work to support his mother, brothers and sisters. He gets a job as an usher in a theater, but really wants to become a policeman to avenge the death of his father. He soon finds himself involved in a fake kidnapping, real gangsters and a tip on the identity of the man who killed his dad.'
'western','As described in a studio publication,[2] Bert Lyons (Gibson) returns to his ranch to discover his foreman dead and the ranch leased to a real estate shark. The new hands seem to be trafficking in booze and narcotics under the guise of raising cattle. He goes to see his sweetheart Molly Grainger (Olmstead) who shares her suspicions. The smugglers do not care for Bert''s curiosity and plan to "get him." The new boss of the ranch has designs on Molly, and tells her that he will assist in freeing her brother Joe (Sutherland), who is in prison charged with murder, if she goes with him across the border. Bert learns of this ruse, tricks the smugglers, and rides to Molly''s rescue. The smugglers are rounded up, and Joe is freed, leaving Bert and Molly to plan their new home.'
'drama','A wild, wealthy woman (Joy) is brought to heel by a sermonizing district attorney after she accidentally hits and kills a motorcycle cop.'
'adventure','The opening scenes are set in Scandinavia, where a ship''s captain and his daughter, Moran, are introduced. Moran, it is clear, adores her father. She has grown up on and around ships and can handle herself on the water as well as any man. Then scene then shifts to San Francisco, where a young socialite, Ramon Laredo, complains that he is tired of the same tiresome round of parties and dances. He wishes he could get away from it all. While on his way to a yachting party, he meets up with an old sailor. After talking, they repair to a saloon, where Ramon is served a Mickey Finn. After passing out, he is shanghaied aboard a nefarious pirating ship, the "Heart of China," run by Captain Kitchell, a man without principles. Though initially dismissed as a pampered weakling by the crew and captain, Ramon proves his manhood and gradually gains everyone''s respect. A Scandinavian ship in distress is spotted off the bow; the pirate crew quickly move in to loot the burning ship. Most of the crew, they discover, is dead, victims of leaking coal gas. Ramon rescues one sailor, whom he carries back to the pirate ship, only to discover that "he" is a "she." It is Moran, of course, whose father has perished aboard the burning ship. Efforts to hide her identify are futile; when Captain Kitchell discovers a female is on board, it is clear that the woman''s virginity is endangered. Ramon, however, is determined to protect her. Gradually, Ramon and Moran fall in love, though Moran insists at first that she has no interest in romance—she should have been born a boy, she says. After a lively battle on board the ship—crew vs. captain and his henchmen—the ship reaches the port in San Diego. Disembarking, Ramon finds himself at a high-society party attended by vacationing San Franciscans. They are delighted to see him and urge him to rejoin their company. But Ramon makes it clear that his experience of recent months has changed him, has made him a better man. Confidently, happily, he returns to the ship and to Moran''s waiting arms.'
'documentary','The documentary follows the lives of an Inuk, Nanook, and his family as they travel, search for food, and trade in the Ungava Peninsula of northern Quebec, Canada. Nanook; his wife, Nyla; and their family are introduced as fearless heroes who endure rigors no other race could survive. The audience sees Nanook, often with his family, hunt a walrus, build an igloo, go about his day, and perform other tasks.'
'drama','Oliver''s mother, a penniless outcast, died giving birth to him. As a young boy, Oliver is brought up in a workhouse, later apprenticed to an uncaring undertaker, and eventually taken in by a gang of thieves who befriend him for their own purposes. All the while, there are secrets from Oliver''s family history waiting to come to light.'
'comedy western','Crooked "oil sharks" led by a man named Hunt have stolen an Indian tribe''s lease to their land and given them 24 hours to vacate. Furious, the Indian chief orders that the first white man who enters their encampment be killed. A butterfly collector (Keaton) unwittingly wanders in while chasing a butterfly. They tie him to a stake and collect wood. When he frees himself, the Indian warriors give chase. During the pursuit, he finds some asbestos and fashions himself some fireproof underwear. As a result, when they catch him and try to burn him at the stake, he remains unharmed. Awed by this, the Indians adopt him and give him the title "Little Chief Paleface". He subsequently leads the tribe in a confrontation with the crooks. When a brawl breaks out, the crooks'' leader Hunt flees. The Indians give chase, with Little Chief Paleface bringing up the rear. Hunt captures the hero, forces him to switch clothes and gets away in disguise. After being nearly skewered by arrows from his own tribe, Little Chief Paleface finds the deed to the land in a pocket. As his reward, he chooses a pretty Indian maiden.'
'comedy','Chaplin plays a laborer on a house construction site. When he gets paid, his wife wants all the money, but he manages to keep enough of it to go out drinking. He returns home just in time to pretend he has just woken up to go to work.'
'drama','As described in a film magazine,[3] the board of directors for the main manufacturing company in the American village of Harmonville send young Elmer Harmon (Blue) to Paris to obtain a contract with the French government. In Paris Elmer meets the dancer Cleo of Paris (Murray), who casts aside her rich, would-be sweethearts and falls in love with him. When his business affairs appear hopeless, she helps him secure his contract, and the couple are married and return to Harmonville. A gala is given in Elmer''s honor for having saved the village''s prosperity, and citizens are shocked by Cleo''s Parisian fashion. Elmer sells his interests and the couple move to New York City. To give Cleo the luxuries to which she is accustomed, Elmer in a moment of weakness forges his uncle''s name and is arrested. Endeavoring to get Elmer out of trouble, Cleo returns to the stage, but in so doing she breaks a promise made to her husband. Elmer is released from jail after promising his uncle to have nothing more to do with Cleo, but then immediately tries to look her up. He finds her in what appears to be a compromising but innocent situation and decides the bad things that have been said about Cleo are true. He returns to Harmonville and the heartbroken Cleo returns to France and seeks seclusion in Normandy. Three years later Elmer finds Cleo there along with her little son who is named for him. They have a reconciliation.'
'drama','As described in a film publication,[3] Margaret "Peg" O''Connell (Taylor), according to her uncle''s will, is to be educated in England under the supervision of her aunt, Mrs. Chichester (Lewis). Upon her arrival from Ireland, she is looked down upon by the Chichester household for her lack of culture, and she vows never to become a lady. She meets Jerry, a young man from a neighboring estate, who becomes her friend. Then she discovers that he is Sir Gerald Adair (Hamilton) and rebels at the deception he has been conducting. She also finds out that the only reason her aunt is keeping her is because of compensation from the will. Peg leaves to return home, but finds that she is in love with Gerald. Gerald follows her and proposes.'
'swashbuckler','Englishman Rudolf Rassendyll (Lewis Stone) decides to pass the time by attending the coronation of his distant relation, King Rudolf V of Ruritania (also played by Stone) . He encounters an acquaintance on the train there, Antoinette de Mauban (Barbara La Marr), the mistress of the king''s treacherous brother, Grand Duke ''Black'' Michael (Stuart Holmes). The day before the coronation, Rassendyll is seen by Colonel Sapt (Robert Edeson) and Captain Fritz von Tarlenheim (Malcolm McGregor). Astounded by the uncanny resemblance between Rassendyll and their liege, they take him to meet Rudolf at a hunting lodge. The king is delighted with his double and invites him to dinner. During the meal, a servant brings in a fine bottle of wine, a present from Michael delivered by his henchman, Rupert of Hentzau (Ramon Novarro). After Rudolf tastes it, he finds it so irresistible that he drinks the entire bottle by himself. The next morning, Sapt is unable to rouse him; the wine was drugged. Sapt is afraid that if the coronation is postponed, Michael will seize the throne. The country is dangerously divided between the supporters of Rudolf and of Michael. The colonel declares that it is Fate that brought Rassendyll to Ruritania; he can take Rudolf''s place with no one the wiser. The Englishman is less certain, but he tosses a coin, which lands in Rudolf''s favor, and Rassendyll goes through with the ceremony. Afterwards, he is driven to the palace in the company of the universally adored Princess Flavia (Alice Terry). Later, when Rassendyll returns to the lodge to switch places with the king once more, he and Sapt find only the corpse of Josef (Snitz Edwards), the servant left to guard the king. Rassendyll is forced to continue the masquerade. With Rudolf guarded by a handful of trusted retainers at Zenda Castle, Michael tries unsuccessfully to bribe Rassendyll into leaving. In the days that follow, Rasssendyll becomes acquainted with Flavia, and the two fall in love. Meanwhile, Rupert tries to alienate Antoinette from Michael by telling her that Michael will marry Flavia once Rudolf is out of the way. However, it has an unintended effect; Antionette reveals Michael''s plans and Rudolf''s location to von Tarlenheim. A dwarf assassin (John George) in Michael''s pay tries to garrot Rassendyll, but Sapt interrupts him before he can finish the job. The would-be killer mistakenly signals to an anxiously waiting Michael that the deed is done, and the duke hastens to Zenda to quietly dispose of the real king. However, Rassendyll was only rendered unconscious. When von Tarlenheim arrives with his news, the three men chase after Michael. Sapt and von Tarlenheim split up to find a way into the castle, but when Antoinette lowers the drawbridge, Rassendyll goes inside alone. Though outnumbered, he manages to kill Michael in a sword fight. Then Sapt and von Tarlenheim come to his aid. When Rupert is cornered by the three men, he chooses death over a waterfall rather than execution for treason. In the aftermath, Rudolf resumes his rightful position, while Rassendyll hides out at the lodge. By chance, Flavia stops there to speak with Colonel Sapt. Despite Sapt''s attempt to shield the princess from heartbreak, a servant girl blurts out that the "king" is staying at the lodge. Rassendyll is forced to tell his beloved the bitter truth. When he tries to persuade her to leave with him, her sense of honour and duty to her country compel her to stay, and Rassendyll departs alone.'
'western','Based upon a review in a film publication,[2] Cyril Henderson (Gibson), although growing up in a western community where guns are common and liquor freely drunk, was never raised by his Quaker mother (Claire) to be "rough." Cyril''s sweetheart Grace Nolan (Murphy) returns from college and, to his dismay, town bully Art Jordan (Boteler) announces that she is his "steady." Grace goes along with this to teach Cyril a lesson. When Cyril then tries to get rough to please her, the people in the town laugh at him. Old Andrew McBride (Hoffman), who held mortgages on nearly everyone in town, is found murdered, and Cyril''s father (Welsh) is arrested as the suspect since he was the last person to see McBride. Cyril tries to confess to the crime to free his father, but Sheriff Nolen, who is Grace''s father, says "Cyril, you can''t do it!" Art tries to get the townspeople to lynch John, but Cyril to the surprise of everyone knocks him down. After Cyril learns of further plans to lynch his father, he grabs a gun and covers the Sheriff and some townspeople, and then grabs Grace and rides off with her. The Sheriff and the townspeople ride after him. The issue of the identity of the murderer and Cyril''s courage are settled in the desert.'
'swashbuckler','The opening has the dashing Earl of Huntingdon besting his bitter enemy, Sir Guy of Gisbourne, in a joust. Huntingdon then joins King Richard the Lion-Hearted, who is going off to fight in the Crusades and has left his brother, Prince John, as regent. The prince soon emerges as a cruel, treacherous tyrant. Goaded on by Sir Guy, he usurps Richard''s throne. When Huntingdon receives a message from Lady Marian Fitzwalter, his love interest, telling him of all that has transpired, he requests permission to return to England. King Richard assumes that the Earl has turned coward and denies him permission. The Earl seeks to leave in spite of this, but is ambushed by Sir Guy and imprisoned as a deserter. Upon escaping from his confines, he returns to England, endangering his life and honor, to oppose Prince John and restore King Richard''s throne. He finds himself and his friends outlawed and Marian apparently dead. Huntingdon returns to Nottingham and adopts the name of Robin Hood, acrobatic champion of the oppressed. Leading a band that steals from the rich to give to the poor, including Friar Tuck, Little John, Will Scarlet, and Alan-a-Dale, he labors to set things right through swashbuckling feats and makes life miserable for Prince John and his cohort, the High Sheriff of Nottingham. After rescuing Marian from Prince John''s prison and defeating Sir Guy in a final conflict, Robin is captured. The timely reappearance of King Richard returns him to Marian and foils the efforts of Prince John.'
'melodrama','A boastful and proud yet abusive fisherman by the name of Daniel Gibbs (Walter Long) leaves his wife Sympathy (De La Motte) to go on a fishing expedition with other villagers from their village of Urkey and is lost at sea. Two men survive, one villager and a mysterious Chinese stranger named Yen Sin (Chaney). Being Chinese and refusing to take part in Christian service for those lost, he is made an outcast and forced to live on a small boat in the harbor. He makes his living doing laundry from his boat, and is soon greeted by the new minister, John Malden (Ford), who tries unsuccessfully to convert him. Love blossoms between Reverend Malden and Sympathy, and they are soon married, to the chagrin of the wealthiest member of the village, Nate Snow (St. Polis). Sympathy soon befriends Yen Sin after she observes several kids taunting him in the street. Snow concocts a blackmail scheme by resurrecting Sympathy''s lost husband Daniel in a letter demanding payment to keep quiet. Malden receives the letter just before going on a trip with Snow, and leaves the now pregnant Sympathy with this serious development on his mind. Yen Sin tells Malden to be sure and get his laundry done by using his friend Sam Low, who turns out to be a very good informant for Yen Sin. While he is away, their baby is born, and he now decides to pay the blackmail money in order to preserve his new family. Malden, upon his return, is so distraught that he resigns from the ministry, and asks Snow if he can borrow money from him to pay off Gibbs. Snow does not get to enjoy the benefits of his deception as Yen Sin exposes the blackmail plot in order to save the young couple, revealing everything while on his deathbed.'
'drama','Leon de Severac is fed up with his daughter Jacqueline, who is constantly seducing men. Hoping to discourage her from her flirtatious behavior, he tells her the story of Zareda, an attractive fortune teller who is having an affair with Ivan de Maupin. Ivan''s father, the Baron, lusts after her as well and Ivan eventually grows convinced that Zareda is cheating on him. Giving her up, he leaves for war shortly after. A short period later, Zareda finds out the Baron is about to poison Marquis Ferroni. Trying to save the marquis, she switches the wine glasses and the Baron dies instead. The marquis, a powerful millionaire, is very grateful to Zareda and they soon marry. For a short period of time, Zareda is a happy woman, until the return of Ivan. Jealous, Ivan makes sure he is not giving the marquis any rest. It eventually leads to a duel, where the marquis is mortally wounded. As he is about to die, he notices his wife embracing Ivan. Realizing she is using her body to get what she wants, he uses his last seconds alive to kill them both.[3] The movie director, Michael Powell, described the film as: "Moonlight on tiger skins and blood dripping onto white faces, while sinister apes, poison and lust kept the plot rolling."[1]:41'
'romantic comedy','Wishing to drive her father''s car, Barbara Jackson (Doris May) dresses up in the chauffeur''s uniform and sneaks out. For a lark, she picks up a passenger (John Gough), but it develops that passenger is part of a team of crooks who are planning to rob Bob Everett (Hallam Cooley), a rival of her father, of his precious artworks. Believing her to be an undercover detective, the bandit forces her to take part in the robbery and then abandons her to be caught by Everett. After convincing Everett that she was a forced accomplice and not the real thief, the two hurry to meet up with Barbara''s father, William Jackson (Otis Harlan). He had just purchased one of the paintings from an art dealer (Harry Carter), and the dealer had left moments before Barbara and Everett arrive. As the two explain the deception, William informs him that he became suspicious when recognizing the painting as one owned by Everett and that he had the dealer held at the front gate. The police arrive and round up the crooks.'
'romance drama','Mary Tudor, Queen of France (Marion Davies), the younger sister of King Henry VIII (Lyn Harding), falls in love with commoner Charles Brandon, 1st Duke of Suffolk (Forrest Stanley). There are other plans for Mary, however; she is supposed to make a politically strategic marriage to the elderly King Louis XII of France (William Norris). Brandon is framed for murder, but Mary, disguised as a boy, helps him to escape. Henry tracks down his sister and her lover at a Bristol Inn, and Mary agrees to wed the French king if Brandon''s life is spared. After Brandon is exiled, Mary goes ahead with the wedding, but King Louis, in his attempt to prove he is lively enough for such a pretty young bride, drops dead. His nephew and heir to the throne, Francis (William Powell), wants to wed Mary, but Brandon comes to the rescue. When Henry discovers that his sister and Brandon have married, he remarks, "I should have consented in the first place, and saved us all this trouble."'
'drama','Spoiled son Andrew Kane (Joseph Striker) competes with James Surbrun (Harry T. Morey) for the affections of wild child Julie Grayton (Mary Anderson). Kane is convicted of murdering Surbrun, but later exonerated.[1]'
'drama','As reviewed in a film magazine,[3] a rich man''s son marries an artist''s model, and is then disinherited by his father. Despite their circumstances, both the son and his model wife do well.'
'adventure','After fifteen years, Joshua Judd (Charles Ogle) tells his adopted son, Amos (Valentino), that his real father was an Indian maharajah overthrown by Ali Khan (Bertram Grassby). Amos, then a young boy (played by an uncredited Pat Moore), was rescued by General Devi Das Gadi (George Periolat) and taken to America for his safety. (Joshua''s merchant brother had been a trusted friend of the late maharajah.) Amos attends Harvard University. There he incurs the hatred of Austin Slade, Jr. (Jack Giddings), whom he beats out for a spot on the rowing team. At a party celebrating a rowing victory over arch-rival Yale, a jealous Slade calls Amos "yellow" and pours a drink on him, causing Amos to punch him. Slade grabs a chair as a weapon, but Amos ducks, and Slade falls through an open window to his death. Amos is cleared of all wrongdoing, but the newspaper story attracts the notice of Amhad Beg (J. Farrell MacDonald), Ali Khan''s Prime Minister. That summer, at a party hosted by close friend Stephen Van Kovert (William Boyd), Amos becomes attracted to one of the other guests, Molly Cabot (Wanda Hawley). By chance, Molly and her family decide to vacation in Amos''s hometown. As they become better acquainted, Amos overcomes Molly''s initial dislike of him. However, Molly tells her father (Edward Jobson) that she cannot marry someone who is not one of her "own people", however much she loves him. Instead, she agrees to marry longtime suitor Horace Bennett (Robert Ober), who had been a good friend of Slade''s. Bennett tells Amos to stay away from his future wife, but when he also calls Amos a murderer, Amos chokes him into apologizing. As he leaves, Amos is struck in the head by a rock thrown by Bennett. Seeing this, Molly rushes to Amos''s side and breaks off her engagement to Bennett. The happy couple decide on an early wedding, but Amos has a vision showing him being murdered the day before. He has had visions before; all came true, even if he tried to prevent them. His family is supposedly descended from Prince Arjuna; the god Krishna granted Arjuna and all his descendants the gift of prophesy. When he reveals this to his future father-in-law (who has already witnessed the accuracy of Amos''s visions), the latter suggests he lock himself away in the sanatorium of a friend for the day. Amos does so, but Amhad Beg and his men find and kidnap him. Just as they are about to kill him, Amos is rescued by the mystic Narada (Josef Swickard), who also can see into the future, and his followers. Narada convinces him to forgo his own happiness and return to India to overthrow the tyrant. When Amos is welcomed by his people and the army revolts, Ali Khan commits suicide. The new Maharajah of Dharmagar takes comfort in his latest vision, which shows his wedding to Molly.'
'drama','Ambrose Applejohn is bored with his life in Cornwall, where he lives with his ward, Poppy Faire. He decides to sell his country estate so he can find excitement elsewhere. Several strangers appear at his door, all claiming reasons to be there that have nothing to do with the sale. One woman says she is a Russian dancer trying to defect, and a man claims to be looking for her. A couple says their car has broken down. Applejohn assumes they are all really prospective buyers investigating his home. That night Applejohn dreams he is a pirate, Captain Applejack. His visitors appear in the dream as his adversaries. The next day, he discovers that the visitors are thieves hunting for a treasure map hidden in the house. Applejohn and Faire overcome the criminals, and he decides that life in Cornwall is exciting enough after all.'
'drama','At the ball celebrating the wedding of Henry of Navarre on August 23, 1572, the evil Queen Mother Catherine de'' Medici (Josephine Crowell) persuades her son King Charles IX to sign a decree to exterminate the Huguenots. Meanwhile, at that same ball the Comte de la Roche (Courtenay Foote) puts the moves on Margot de Vaincoire (Betty Francisco), fiancée of Rupert de Vrieac (Conway Tearle). The de la Roches and de Vrieacs have been enemies for years and Rupert challenges the Comte to a duel. In their duel Rupert wins, but spares the Comte’s life so he will be obligated to him. Rupert and Margot are Huguenots while the Comte is a Catholic of the Queen Mother’s party. The Comte is sent to kill Rupert, but instead takes him to Margot’s house, which he has put under guard so the mob can’t attack it. There the Comte says he will arrange to spare them both if Rupert will agree to become his servant for five years. At the pleading of Margot, Rupert agrees. The Comte takes Rupert to his castle where his two sisters Yoeland (Norma Talmadge) and the crippled Anne (Jeanne Carpenter) live. Yoeland despises him when she finds out who Rupert is. However, when a captured wolf escapes, threatening her and Anne, yet Rupert defeats it with his bare hands her attitude starts to soften. Yoeland goes to see her cousin Denise, who is being forced by her uncle Louis de la Roches into an arranged marriage with the Duc de Tours. Yoeland takes Rupert as her escort. However Denise loves Phillipe de Vois, who is a poor nobleman. Then Anton, Rupert’s servant brings word that Margot de Vaincoire has married someone else. The Duc of Tours (Wallace Beery) arrives for his wedding. Denise’s father is called to Paris, leaving the Duc in charge of his castle. The Duc is revealed as a drunken brute, terrorizing the serfs and trying to seduce both Yoeland and a servant girl, killing her guardsman lover. The castle guards determine to avenge their dead comrade, so Yoeland directs Rupert to protect the Duc since he is her uncle’s guest. Rupert and few men battle the castle guard. Father Paul, Denise’s confessor escapes and brings back Phillipe de Vois and his men to save them. During the fight Yoeland realizes she loves Rupert. However, when she finds a lock of blonde hair in his doublet, while nursing the wounded Rupert back to health she thinks Rupert still loves Margot. Yoeland stops the Duc from torturing the dead guardsman’s brother and lover who instigated the attack on him. Phillipe de Vois and Denise elope, which the Duc allows to happen, as he intends to threaten Rupert with blinding with a hot poker to force Yoeland to marry him. She agrees but the guardsmen save them. Rupert and the Duc duel, but the Duc is stabbed in the back by the lover of the guardsman he killed. At Yoeland’s request her brother releases Rupert from his oath and after Yoeland learns the blonde hair was from Anne’s doll that she gave to Rupert as a token, Yoeland and Rupert become engaged.'
'comedy','A young man (Keaton) has a series of encounters in an amusement area, much like Coney Island, until happening upon a group of men preparing a hot air balloon for launch. The young man assists the group by climbing atop the balloon to affix a pennant, when the balloon mistakenly takes flight with no one aboard but the young man. The young man finally downs the balloon in a wilderness area, where he encounters a young outdoorswoman and proceeds to have a series of misadventures.'
'drama','Lee Clavering (Tearle), a playwright in New York, falls in love with an Austrian countess, Madame Zatianny (Griffith). Janet Oglethorpe (Bow), an animated and precocious flapper, is also in love with Lee but he hasn''t noticed yet. Unbeknownst to Lee, Madame Zatianny is actually 58 years old, and has retained her youth through a rejuvenating glandular treatment and X-ray surgery. Lee''s plans to marry Madame Zatianny are thwarted when one of her former admirers reveals her embarrassing secret and, in the end, Lee discovers happiness with Janet.'
'western','Glenn Kilbourne (Richard Dix) returns from the war and travels to Arizona to regain his health. There he is nursed back to health by an Arizona girl, Flo Hutter (Marjorie Daw). Kilbourne''s fiancée, Carley Burch (Lois Wilson), arrives in Arizona but soon becomes disillusioned with life in the West and returns to New York. Sometime later, Flo is seriously injured in an accident. Wanting to repay her for restoring him back to health, Glenn asks her to marry him. On their wedding day, Carley returns to Arizona from New York looking for Glenn. When Flo sees that Glenn and Carley are still in love, she calls off her wedding to Glenn and marries another admirer, Lee Stanton (Leonard Clapham).'
'comedy drama','Orphaned Ben Applegate (Barry) strives to care for his younger brothers (O''Donnell and Guerin) and run the farm left to them. Their unscrupulous legal guardian, Uncle Grimes (George Nichols) schemes to take their property and separate the brothers, but he is ultimately thwarted by a benevolent judge (George C. Pearce). The Applegates are reunited, their property restored, and they are adopted by caring neighbors.'
'melodrama','A university student named John Browning (Charles Emmett Mack) goes against his mother''s wishes and becomes involved in a torrid love-affair with a fickle young cabaret singer named Susie LaMotte (Mildred Harris). LaMotte toys with the youth''s affections and does not tell him that she is already romantically involved with a boxer named Jim Moran (Joe King). One evening John Browning discovers that Susie and Moran are having a relationship when he accidentally walks in on them. Outraged, Browning and Moran become embroiled in an argument. Moran pulls out a pistol, but during the ensuing struggle accidentally mortally wounds himself. Overcome with rage, Susie blames John Browning for Moran''s death and Browning is subsequently tried, convicted and sentenced to death. Browning languishes in prison for some time, and just as he is strapped into the electric chair to be executed for the murder of Jim Moran, a bolt of lightning strikes the prison knocking out the power. Meanwhile, Moran''s widow (Clara Bow) implores Susie to tell the authorities the truth surrounding the circumstances of the death of Jim Moran. Susie eventually folds and confesses that she had lied and that Jim Moran had in fact accidentally shot himself after pulling a gun on John Browning. John is pardoned by the governor and leaves prison a free man.'
'comedy','Sue Graham (Normand) is a small town girl who travels to Hollywood to escape marriage, and in the hope of becoming a motion picture star. She wins a contract with a studio on the strength of a picture of a quite different (and very attractive) girl sent instead of hers; but when she arrives the mistake is discovered. Since the error was the result of another’s deception, the studio manager agrees to give her a job in the costume department. She eventually gets the opportunity to screen test, but it turns out disastrously – although in a nod to the actress behind the character the director calls her "a natural comedian." Sue''s parents come out to California, and invest money with a shifty individual who swindles them out of their life savings. Sue and childhood friend Dave, who has also followed her, retrieve the money. Despite the unsuccessful film career, all turns out well.'
'romance','Julia (Bessie Love) is a "small-town heartbreaker"[2] who falls for an older man (Charles K. French).[3] When he takes her back to his home in Chicago, she finds out he is married. She leaves him, returning to neighbor Noble Dill (Harold Goodwin).[4]'
'drama','The story is set in Paris in 1482. Quasimodo is a deaf, half-blind, hunchbacked bell-ringer of the famous Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris. His master Jehan, the evil brother of Notre Dame''s saintly archdeacon Don Claudio, prevails upon the hunchback to kidnap the fair Esmeralda, a dancing gypsy girl (and the adopted daughter of Clopin, the king of the oppressed beggars of Paris'' underworld). The dashing Captain Phoebus rescues Esmeralda from Quasimodo, while Jehan abandons him and flees (later in the film, Quasimodo begins to hate Jehan because of this). At first seeking a casual romance, Phoebus becomes entranced by Esmeralda, and takes her under his wing. Quasimodo is sentenced to be lashed in the public square before Esmeralda and Don Claudio come to his aid. To their dismay, Jehan and Clopin learn that Phoebus hopes to marry Esmeralda, despite being engaged to Fleur de Lys. Phoebus persuades Esmeralda to accompany him to a ball celebrating his appointment as Captain of the Guard by King Louis XI. He provides her with rich garments and introduces her to their hostess, Madame de Gondelaurier, as a Princess of Egypt. Clopin, accompanied by his beggars, crashes the festivities and demands Esmeralda be returned. To avoid bloodshed, Esmeralda says that she does not belong with the aristocracy. Later, however, Esmeralda sends the street poet Pierre Gringoire to give Phoebus a note, arranging a rendezvous at Notre Dame to say goodbye to him. Before Phoebus arrives, he is stabbed in the back by Jehan. After Esmeralda is falsely sentenced to death for the crime, she is rescued from the gallows by Quasimodo and carried inside the cathedral, where he and Don Claudio grant her sanctuary. Later that night, Clopin leads the whole of the underworld to storm the cathedral, and Jehan attempts to take Esmeralda, first by guile (telling her that Phoebus''s dying wish was for him to take care of her), then by force. Quasimodo holds off the invaders with rocks and torrents of molten lead. Meanwhile, the healed Phoebus is alerted by Gringoire and leads his men against the rabble. When Quasimodo finds Jehan attacking Esmeralda, he throws his former master off the ramparts of Notre Dame, but not before being fatally stabbed in the back. Phoebus finds and embraces Esmeralda. Witnessing this, Quasimodo rings his own death toll, and Gringoire and Don Claudio enter the bell tower just in time to see him die. The last image is of the great bell swinging silently above the hunchback''s corpse.'
'drama','A nobleman, posing as a necktie salesman, falls in love with the daughter of a circus puppeteer, even though he is already married to the daughter of his country''s war minister.'
'comedy','The Canfield and McKay families have been feuding for so long, no one remembers the reason the feud started in the first place. One stormy night in 1810, family patriarch John McKay (Edward Coxen) and his rival James Canfield (Tom London) kill each other. After the tragic death of her husband, John''s wife decides her son Willie (the infant Buster Keaton Jr.) will not suffer the same fate. She moves to New York to live with her sister, who after the mother''s death raises him without telling him of the feud. Twenty years later, Willie (Buster Keaton Sr.) receives a letter informing him that his father''s estate is now his. His aunt tells him of the feud, but he decides to return to his Southern birthplace anyway to claim his inheritance. On the train ride, he meets a girl, Virginia (played by Keaton''s wife Natalie Talmadge). They are shy to each other at first, but become acquainted during many train mishaps. At their destination, she is greeted by her father (Joe Roberts) and two brothers (Ralph Bushman and Craig Ward); she, it turns out, is a Canfield. Willie innocently asks one of the brothers where the McKay estate is. The brother offers to show him the way, but stops at every shop in search of a pistol to shoot the unsuspecting Willie. By the time he obtains one, Willie has wandered off. Willie is very disappointed to discover the McKay "estate" is a rundown home, not the stately mansion he had imagined. Later, however, he encounters Virginia, who invites him to supper. When he arrives, the brothers want to shoot him, but the father refuses to allow it while he is a guest in their mansion. The father refers to this as "our hospitality". When Willie overhears a conversation between the brothers, he finally realizes his grave predicament. A parson comes to supper as well. Afterward, the parson prepares to leave, but he finds it is raining furiously. The Canfield patriarch insists the parson stay the night. McKay invites himself to do the same. The next morning, McKay stays inside the house, while the Canfield men wait for his departure. The father catches McKay kissing his daughter. McKay finally manages to leave safely by putting on a woman''s dress. However, a chase ensues. He eventually starts down a steep cliff side, but is unable to find a way to the bottom. One Canfield lowers a rope (so he can get a better shot) to which Willie ties himself, but the Canfield falls into the water far below, dragging Willie along. Finally, Willie manages to steal the train locomotive and tender, but the tender derails, dumping him into the river towards the rapids. Virginia spots him and goes after him in a rowboat; she falls into the water and is swept over the edge of the large waterfall. McKay swings trapeze-like on a rope, catching her hands in mid-fall and depositing her safely on a ledge. When it grows dark, the Canfield men decide to continue their murderous search the next day. Returning home, they see Willie and Virginia embracing; Joseph Canfield furiously rushes into the room, gun in hand. He is brought up short by the parson, who asks him if he wishes to kiss the bride. Seeing a hanging "love thy neighbor" sampler, the father decides to bless the union and end the feud. The Canfields place their pistols on a table; Willie then divests himself of the many guns he took from their gun cabinet.'
'comedy','The Pilgrim (Chaplin), an escaped convict, steals a minister''s clothes to replace his prison uniform. At a train station, he encounters an eloping couple who want him to marry them. The woman''s father shows up and takes her away. The convict then picks a destination at random and ends up in Devil''s Gulch, Texas, on a Sunday. A delegation is waiting to welcome their new parson. With the sheriff nearby, the Pilgrim has to keep playing his part. A large deacon takes him to the church, where he improvises a sermon about David and Goliath. It has been arranged for the parson to board with Mrs. Brown and her attractive daughter. The latter and the Pilgrim are attracted to each other. A complication arises when the crook, the Pilgrim''s old cellmate, spots him. Curious, the man pretends to be the Pilgrim''s old college friend and is invited to tea by Mrs. Brown. Among the other guests are a man and wife and their young boy, who proceeds to annoy everyone. Also present is the large deacon, who refuses to accept Mrs. Brown''s mortgage payment on the Sabbath. Despite the Pilgrim''s best efforts, the crook later steals the money and flees. The Pilgrim promises Miss Brown he will get the money back. After he leaves, however, the sheriff shows the young woman a wanted poster for her boarder. The crook heads to a casino. Despite a robbery in progress, the Pilgrim manages to retrieve the money. He gives it and the church collection to Miss Brown. When he is apprehended by the sheriff, Miss Brown comes to his defense, revealing what he has done. As a result, the sheriff takes his prisoner to the border and orders him to pick him some flowers on Mexican land. Not taking the hint, the Pilgrim returns. The sheriff has to literally kick him out of American jurisdiction before he recognizes the lawman''s act of kindness. However, his enjoyment of the peace of a new land proves to be short-lived; several gunmen pop out of the undergrowth and start shooting at each other. The frightened Pilgrim hastens away, straddling the border as he ponders his options.'
'comedy','The film opens in 1922 with Harold Lloyd (the character has the same name as the actor) behind bars. His mother and his girlfriend, Mildred, are consoling him as a somber official and priest show up. The three of them walk toward what looks like a noose. It then becomes obvious they are at a train station and the "noose" is actually a trackside pickup hoop used by train crews to receive orders without stopping, and the bars are merely the ticket barrier. He promises to send for his girlfriend so they can get married once he has "made good" in the big city. Then he is off. He gets a job as a salesclerk at the De Vore Department Store, where he has to pull various stunts to get out of trouble with the picky and arrogantly self-important head floorwalker, Mr. Stubbs. He shares a rented room with his pal "Limpy" Bill, a construction worker. When Harold finishes his shift, he sees an old friend from his hometown who is now a policeman walking the beat. After he leaves, Bill shows up. Bragging to Bill about his supposed influence with the police department, he persuades Bill to knock the policeman backwards over him while the man is using a callbox. When Bill does so, he knocks over the wrong policeman. To escape, he climbs up the façade of a building. The policeman tries to follow, but cannot get past the first floor; in frustration, he shouts at Bill, "You''ll do time for this! The first time I lay eyes on you again, I''ll pinch you!" Meanwhile, Harold has been hiding his lack of success by sending his girlfriend expensive presents he cannot really afford. She mistakenly thinks he is successful enough to support a family and, with his mother''s encouragement, takes a train to join him. In his embarrassment, he has to pretend to be the general manager, even succeeding in impersonating him to get back at Stubbs. While going to retrieve her purse (which Mildred left in the manager''s office), he overhears the real general manager say he would give $1,000 to anyone who could attract people to the store. He remembers Bill''s talent and pitches the idea of having a man climb the "12-story Bolton building", which De Vore''s occupies. He gets Bill to agree to do it by offering him $500. The stunt is highly publicized and a large crowd gathers the next day. When a drunkard shows "The Law" (the policeman who was pushed over) a newspaper story about the event, the lawman suspects Bill is going to be the climber. He waits at the starting point despite Harold''s frantic efforts to get him to leave. Finally, unable to wait any longer, Bill suggests Harold climb the first story himself and then switch his hat and coat with Bill, who will continue on from there. After Harold starts up, the policeman spots Bill and chases him into the building. Every time Harold tries to switch places with Bill, the policeman appears and chases Bill away. Each time, Bill tells his friend he will meet him on the next floor up. Eventually, Harold reaches the top, despite his troubles with a clock and some hungry pigeons, and kisses his girl.'
'adventure','André-Louis Moreau (Ramon Novarro) loves Aline de Kercadiou (Alice Terry), the niece of his godfather, Quintin de Kercadiou (Lloyd Ingraham), and she him. However Quintin would prefer she married the Marquis de la Tour d''Azyr (Lewis Stone), a middle-aged nobleman, rather than someone who does not even know who his parents are. One day, expert swordsman de la Tour first toys with, then kills André''s friend Philippe de Vilmorin in a duel. André turns to the King''s Lieutenant for justice. However, when the official learns who the accused is, he immediately orders André''s arrest. André flees. Meanwhile, France nears the brink of revolution. When one orator in favor of liberty and equality is shot down by a soldier, André fearlessly takes his place and remains undaunted when he is grazed by a bullet. When the dragoons are called out to disperse the mob, an admirer named Chapelier helps André escape. He joins a wandering theatre troupe led by Challefau Binet (James A. Marcus). André writes better plays for them to perform, and they become very successful, eventually performing at a theatre in Paris. André becomes engaged to Binet''s daughter, Climène (Edith Allen). Aline and de la Tour attend a performance of his latest work, however, and she and André spot each other. She goes to see him, but he does not wish to renew their relationship. De la Tour, despite loving Aline, cannot help trifling with Climène. By chance, Aline and Countess de Plougastel (Julia Swayne Gordon), with whom she is staying, see him in a carriage with Climène. Aline informs de la Tour she never wants to see him again. De la Tour blackmails the countess into helping him, reminding her of an incident in her past. Meanwhile, in the National Assembly, the aristocrats, unable to effectively respond to the reform-minded delegates with words, resort to duels to eliminate their leading opponents. Chief among the duelists is de la Tour. In desperation, Danton and Chapelier recruit André to reply in kind. The Chevalier de Chabrillone (William Humphrey) is his first victim. Eventually, he gets what he wants: a duel with de la Tour. He disarms his foe, then allows him to pick up his sword. After André wounds the nobleman in his sword arm, de la Tour gives up. When news reaches Paris that the Austrians and Prussians have invaded France in support of the beleaguered King Louis XVI, the French Revolution erupts. In the fighting, de la Tour is overwhelmed and left for dead. When he revives, he staggers to the residence of the countess. André heads there too, to rescue his love and his mother the countess (whose identity has been revealed to him by de Kercadiou), armed with a passport signed by Danton authorizing him to do anything he wants. When the two bitter enemies spot each other, de la Tour demands the passport. André refuses, whereupon de la Tour draws a pistol. The countess throws herself in front of de la Tour, then reveals that he is in fact André''s father. The two men have an initially uneasy reconciliation. When de la Tour starts to leave, André offers him his sword. Thus armed, de la Tour faces the rioters in the street and perishes. André places the two women in a covered carriage. At the Paris gate, a man spots the aristocrats inside and demands they be handed over to the mob. Moreau pleads with them to let them go for his sake. The masses respond with extravagant sentimentality, and the trio are allowed to leave Paris.'
'drama','In 1906, Wilse Dilling (Lon Chaney), a crippled gangster living like a brute in the savage streets of Chinatown, receives a coded message to go to the home of his boss, Ann Cardington (Christine Mayo), known as Queen Anne, a powerful crime boss feared in the underworld. When Wilse meets with her, she sends him to the town of Fallbrook, where he is to await her instructions in dealing with a former lover of hers, a banker named Micha Hadley (William Welsh), who had betrayed her. Dilling is to pose as a telegraph operator in his effort to watch the banker. Being practically dependent on crutches and wheelchair-bound has not stopped Dilling from committing a lengthy series of crimes, but to his surprise, he finds that the small town atmosphere makes him feel differently about everything. He finds a good friend in Hadley''s daughter Gertrude (Virginia Valli), whom Dilling not only falls in love with her but she helps him believe that he can make a fresh start. Gertrude, however, is engaged to Jack Cooper (Jack Mower). Dilling''s new-found contentment is soon shattered by a series of new developments which includes trying to stop Queen Ann''s plot against Hadley and Gertrude. Threatened with exposure as a thief, Hadley lashes out at Dilling when he confesses his part in the scheme. When an attempt to blow up the bank goes badly, Gertrude and Cooper are caught in the blast. With Gertrude severely injured, Cooper''s father forces him to break off their engagement. With the bank records destroyed, bank examiners are unable to find evidence against Hadley. After surgery, his daughter is expected to make a complete recovery but Queen Anne still seeks his revenge. Dilling tries to recover a document that his boss is holding, but with her henchmen, she captures Gerturde to Dilling''s despair. Before anything can happen, everyone in the Manadarin Cafe, the gangsters'' headquarters, as well as the entire city, is caught up in the San Francisco earthquake. Dilling survives and later in recuperation, is able to recover the use of his legs, beginning a new life with Gertrude.'
'comedy','The film is a spoof of Rudolph Valentino’s hit 1921 film The Sheik and features Turpin as a bill poster daydreaming about having various adventures as an Arabian sheik.[3]'
'drama','Benadict Hisston is a foreign agent, part of a conspiracy to destroy the Panama Canal and the United States Navy''s Atlantic Fleet. He attempts to acquire information about mine placement in the Canal Zone from Captain Richard Decatur, but fails. With that information essential to the conspiracy''s success, he then hires vamp Peg Williams to obtain the intelligence through seduction. Decatur is not fooled, and obeys the "silent command" of the Chief of Naval Intelligence to play along with the spies without revealing his purpose to friends or family. He is court-martialed, stripped of rank, and dismissed from the Navy after he strikes an admiral. His association with Williams estranges him from his wife, but earns him the trust of Hisston and the other spies. When the conspirators are ready to enact their plan, he travels to Panama with them. He thwarts their attempt at sabotage, saving the canal and the fleet. He is reinstated into the Navy, reunited with his wife, and honored by the nation for his heroism.[1][2]'
'drama','The title is also the moniker of a renowned safe-cracker, Slippy McGee, who has always managed to evade capture until his latest job, when he is wounded. He escapes aboard a freight train, bound for parts unknown, and finds himself in the town of Appleborro. There, he is discovered and cared for by Father De Rance and Mary Virginia. His leg is amputated, and during his recovery in Appleborro, the town''s influence causes him to reform. He becomes interested in the local butterflies, De Rance''s hobby, and becomes so knowledgeable in them that he becomes a published expert. Slippy has fallen in love with Mary Virginia, but she plans to marry Lawrence Mayne. However, George Inglesby determines that he wants Mary Virginia for himself, and decides to blackmail Mary Virginia into marrying him using incriminating letters he has in his possession. Wishing Mary to be happy, Slippy resorts to his old ways, breaking into the safe where the letters are kept and thus freeing Mary Virginia of the power George has over her.'
'drama','Remember "Mem" Steddon (Eleanor Boardman) marries Owen Scudder (Lew Cody) after a whirlwind courtship. However, on their wedding night, she has a change of heart. When the train taking them to Los Angeles stops for water, she impulsively and secretly gets off in the middle of the desert. Strangely, when Scudder realizes she is gone, he does not have the train stopped. Mem sets off in search of civilization. Severely dehydrated, she sees an unusual sight: an Arab on a camel. It turns out to be actor Tom Holby (Frank Mayo); she has stumbled upon a film being shot on location. When she recuperates, she is given a role as an extra. Both Holby and director Frank Claymore (Richard Dix) are attracted to her. However, when filming ends, she does not follow the troupe back to Hollywood, but rather gets a job at a desert inn. Meanwhile, Scudder is recognized and arrested at the train station. He turns out to be a cold-blooded murderer who marries women, insures them, and then kills them for the payoff. He escapes and persuades a gullible Abigail Tweedy (Dale Fuller) to file off his handcuffs. She becomes his next victim, though fortunately for her, he only robs her of her savings. He leaves the country and targets Englishwoman Lady Jane (Aileen Pringle). To his profound embarrassment, she turns out to be the same sort of crook as he; she and her father "Lord Fryingham" (William Orlamond) rob him, but let him live. When the inn closes for the season, Mem travels to Hollywood in search of work. Her actress friend from the desert shoot, Leva Lemaire (Barbara La Marr), persuades Claymore to give her a screen test for the only uncast role in his next production: a comic part. Though she fails miserably, Claymore decides to train her anyway. She proves to be talented and steadily gets better and better parts. Just as Mem is rising to fame, Scudder returns and sneaks into her bedroom. Holby and Claymore have become rivals for Mem''s affections. When Scudder sees their warmly autographed photographs, he flies into a jealous rage. Mem, aware of her husband''s past and fearful of a career-ending scandal, offers him money to leave her alone, but he wants her. Scudder leaves only when she threatens to kill herself. Claymore shows up, but when Scudder overhears the director propose marriage to his protegée, Scudder tries to shoot him. Claymore wrestles away his gun, but lets him go at Mem''s urging. When star Robina Teele (Mae Busch) is seriously injured by a falling light, Claymore decides to have Mem take her place. Filming continues on an outdoor circus set, complete with a full-scale Big Top tent. In the climax, a lightning storm sets the huge tent on fire in the middle of filming. (Claymore orders his cameramen to keep shooting.) Scudder, who has snuck into the audience of extras, takes advantage of the panic and confusion to try to kill an unsuspecting Claymore by driving a wind machine (with a deadly propeller) at him. Holby spots Scudder and struggles with him. When Mem stumbles into the machine''s path, Scudder rushes to save her and loses his own life. He apologizes before dying, explaining that all his life there was something wrong with him, but he did at least one thing right. Afterward, Mem chooses Claymore over Holby.'
'epic','Despite its epic scale, the Moses story takes up only about the first third of the film. After that, the story changes to a modern setting involving living by the lessons of the commandments. Two brothers make opposite decisions, one, John, to follow his mother''s teaching of the Ten Commandments and become a poor carpenter, and the other, Danny, to break every one of them and rise to the top. The film shows his unchecked immorality to be momentarily gainful, but ultimately disastrous. A thoughtful contrast is made between the carpenter brother and his mother. The mother reads the story of Moses and emphasizes strict obedience and fear of God. The carpenter, however, reads from the New Testament story of Jesus''s healing of lepers. His emphasis is on a loving and forgiving God. The film also shows the mother''s strict lawful morality to be flawed in comparison to her son''s version. Danny becomes a corrupt contractor who builds a church with shoddy concrete, pocketing the money saved and becoming very rich. One day, his mother comes to visit him at his work site, but the walls are becoming unstable due to the shaking of heavy trucks on nearby roads. One of the walls collapses on top of the mother, killing her. In her dying breath, she tells Danny that it is her fault for teaching him to fear God, when she should have taught him love. This sends Danny on a downward spiral as he attempts to right his wrongs and clear his conscience, but he only gets into more trouble. To make money, he steals pearls from his mistress, and when she fights back, he kills her. He attempts to flee to Mexico on a motorboat, but rough weather sends him off course and he crashes into a rocky island, where he is presumably killed. Throughout the film, the visual motif of the tablets of the commandments appears in the sets, with a particular commandment appearing on them when it is relevant to the story.'
'comedy','Three plots in three different historical periods—prehistoric times, Ancient Rome, and modern times (the Roaring Twenties)—are intercut to prove the point that man''s love for woman has not significantly changed throughout history. In all three plots, characters played by the small and slight Buster Keaton and handsome bruiser Wallace Beery compete for the attention of the same woman, played by Margaret Leahy. Each plot follows similar "arcs" in the story line in which Keaton''s character works for his beloved''s attention and eventually wins her over. In the Stone Age story line, Keaton competes with the bigger, brutish Beery for a cavewoman Leahy. After observing another caveman drag away a woman by the hair in order to "claim" her, Keaton tries to become more assertive, but is continuously pushed back and bullied by Beery. An attempt to make Leahy jealous by flirting with another woman ends in failure. Nevertheless, Keaton grows closer to Leahy, and Beery challenges him to a fight at sunrise. Keaton wins thanks to hiding a rock in his club, but is caught and tied to the tail of an elephant to be dragged around the dirt as punishment. Upon his return, he finds Leahy about to be claimed by Beery and attempts to make off with her. Beery catches him and the two battle by tossing boulders at each other from afar, with Keaton and Leahy on a cliff together. When Beery climbs up to reclaim Leahy, Keaton dispatches Leahy''s cronies and finally defeats him. He drags a smitten Leahy off by the hair. In the epilogue, they go off for a walk with their huge family of children following them. In the Ancient Rome segment, Keaton attempts to attract the attention of the wealthy Leahy, but is continually pushed back by Beery. Beery challenges him to a chariot race after a hard snow — Keaton wins by using sled dogs instead of horses. In revenge, Beery forces him into the lion pit belonging to Leahy''s family. Keaton survives by befriending the lion and cleaning its claws. Keaton is rescued by Leahy''s parents while Beery kidnaps Leahy. Keaton rescues her and tries to seduce her in her palanquin, which takes off without them. In the epilogue, they also go out for a walk with many children in tow. In the "modern times" story line, Keaton is a poor man yearning for Leahy, who has rich parents. Leahy''s mother, unimpressed with Keaton''s bank account but interested in Beery''s, decides on Beery as a match for her daughter. Keaton accidentally gets drunk at a restaurant where Beery and Leahy are dining, and Beery tricks the male half of another couple into punching Keaton, who stumbles home drunk. Later, Keaton impresses Leahy by playing a football game, whereas Beery is only a coach; Beery decides to play opposite Keaton. Keaton is overwhelmed by the bigger Beery, but ends up winning the game with an impressive touchdown. An irritated Beery frames Keaton for possession of alcohol and gets him arrested, simultaneously showing him a wedding announcement between him and Leahy — Keaton will be unable to stop the wedding while in jail. While shadowed by a guard, Keaton finds a criminal file showing that Beery has been charged with bigamy and forgery. He attempts to call Leahy to warn her. He accidentally escapes when the phone booth he''s using is taken out for replacement. Keaton evades the police chasing him and make it to the church on time, dragging Leahy away from the wedding and into a cab. After showing her Beery''s criminal file, he takes Leahy home and prepares to leave, but she kisses him. He declares to the cab driver that they''re going back to the church. In the epilogue, they also go out for a walk — this time with their dog instead of children.'
'drama','Angela Chiaromonte (Lillian Gish) and Captain Giovanni Severini (Ronald Colman) are deeply in love, but Angela''s wealthy father, Prince Chiaromonte, does not know this and arranges her marriage, without her knowledge, to the son of Count del Ferice. However, the prince dies in an accident. While Angela grieves, her older half-sister, the Marchesa di Mola, looks through their late father''s papers and secretly burns one of them. No will can be found, so not only does the entire estate go to the Marchesa, but because the prince''s second marriage was not registered with the civil authorities, it is not legally valid, making Angela "nobody". With that, Count del Ferice dissolves the marriage contract between Angela and his son. The Marchesa orders Angela to leave the palace that very day, revealing that she has always hated her stepsister for "whining" her way into their father''s affection and for taking Giovanni, the only man she ever loved. Madame Bernard, Angela''s companion and chaperone, takes her in. Giovanni finds her, but has some bad news. He has been appointed to command an expedition to Africa and must leave the next morning. However, he promises they will be married the day he returns. His camp is attacked by Arabs, and Italian newspapers announce that all have been massacred. When Angela hears the news, she becomes catatonic. She is taken to the Santa Giovanna d''Aza hospital, which is run by nuns. After several days, the painter Durand, himself hopelessly in love with Angela, paints a portrait of Giovanni and brings it to the hospital, hoping it will help. Angela at first mistakes it for Giovanni, kissing it several times, but then comes to her senses. After a while, she informs Monsignor Seracinesca, an old family friend, that she intends to become a nun, a white sister, in honor of Giovanni. However, Giovanni is still alive. For two years, he languishes as a captive until the death of his sole comrade gives him the chance to overpower their guard and escape. On the ship back to Italy, he is ordered not to speak to anyone until he has seen the Minister of War. That same day, Angela takes her final vows in a solemn ceremony, dedicating her life to the Catholic Church. Giovanni''s older brother, Professor Ugo Severi, breaks down after years of research trying to harness the power of Mount Vesuvius and is taken to the Santa Giovanna d''Aza hospital. Giovanni visits him, and by chance, meets Angela. After their initial shock, he embraces and tries to kiss her. She responds at first, but then remembers her circumstances and runs to her room. Monsignor Saracinesca restrains Giovanni from following, explaining that Angela is now married to the Church. Giovanni refuses to accept that. He lures Angela by false pretenses to his brother''s observatory. He tries to get her to sign a petition to the Pope requesting a release from her vows, but she refuses. When Giovanni sees that all his pleadings are useless, he allows her to leave. The Marchesa tries to persuade Monsignor Saracinesca that Angela has gone willingly to be with her lover. He does not believe her, but sets out for the observatory anyway. Meanwhile, Giovanni notices that his brother''s invention indicates that Vesuvius is about to erupt. He rides to warn the townsfolk, passing Saracinesca on the way. The Marchesa''s carriage is wrecked when her horses bolt, startled by lightning. Fatally injured, she crawls and stumbles to an empty church, her only thought to confess her sins before dying. By chance, Angela seeks shelter there. Not recognizing her, the Marchesa confesses she burned the will out of hatred and asks if her sister will forgive her. After a visible struggle with her emotions, Angela says she does, before her sister passes away. Vesuvius erupts, spewing lava and breaking a water reservoir. However, Giovanni has been in time. Most of the townspeople are saved. Giovanni though drowns helping a mother and her children. Afterward, Angela asks God to keep him safe until they can be reunited.'
'comedy','Harold Van Pelham (Lloyd) is a rich businessman who fancies himself deathly sick when in fact he is perfectly fine. He decides to sail to a small, nearly unknown island some distance West of South America named "El Paradiso" for his health. Instead of the peace and seclusion he is seeking, he finds himself in the midst of a revolution, although for a long time he does not realize this (resulting in several hilarious scenes). Finally, he is thrown into prison where he meets a friendly giant, Colosso (Aasen). Together, they engineer an escape. After Harold helps Colosso pull out a bad tooth, Colosso is eternally grateful and vows to do Harold''s will. Harold decides that the revolution is bad for his health and must be stopped. Harold, Colosso, and Harold''s nurse (Ralston) manage to single-handedly quell the revolution. Finally, Harold realizes that he is not as sick as he thought he was.'
'romance drama','Marie St. Clair and her beau, aspiring artist Jean Millet, plan to leave their small French village for Paris, where they will marry. On the night before their scheduled departure, Marie leaves her house for a rendezvous with Jean. Marie''s stepfather locks her out of the house, telling her to find shelter elsewhere. Jean invites Marie to his parents'' home, but his father also refuses to let her stay. Jean escorts Marie to the train station, and promises to return after going home to pack. When he arrives at home, he discovers his father has died. When Jean telephones Marie at the station to tell her they must postpone their trip, she gets on the train without him. One year later in Paris, Marie enjoys a life of luxury as the mistress of wealthy businessman Pierre Revel. A friend calls and invites Marie to a raucous party in the Latin Quarter. She gives Marie the address but can''t remember whether the apartment is in the building on the right or the left. Marie enters the wrong building and is surprised to be greeted by Jean Millet, who shares a modest apartment with his mother. Marie tells Jean she would like for him to paint her portrait and gives him a card with her address. Jean calls on Marie at her apartment to begin the painting. Marie notices he is wearing a black armband and asks why he is in mourning. Jean tells Marie his father died the night she left without him. Marie and Jean revive their romance, and Marie distances herself from Pierre Revel. Jean finishes Marie''s portrait, but instead of painting her wearing the elegant outfit she chose for the sitting, he paints her in the simple dress she wore on the night she left for Paris. Jean proposes to Marie. Jean''s mother fights with him over the proposal. Marie arrives unexpectedly outside Jean''s apartment just in time to overhear Jean pacify his mother, telling her that he proposed in a moment of weakness. Jean fails to convince Marie he didn''t mean what she overheard, and she returns to Pierre Revel. The following night, Jean slips a gun into his coat pocket and goes to the exclusive restaurant where Marie and Pierre are dining. Jean and Pierre get into a scuffle, and Jean is ejected from the dining room. Jean fatally shoots himself in the foyer of the restaurant. The police carry Jean''s body to his apartment. Jean''s mother retrieves the gun and goes to Marie''s apartment, but Marie has gone to Jean''s studio. Jean''s mother returns and finds Marie sobbing by Jean''s body. The two women reconcile and return to the French countryside, where they open a home for orphans in a country cottage. One morning, Marie and one of the girls in her care walk down the lane to get a pail of milk. Marie and the girl meet a group of sharecroppers who offer them a ride back in their horse-drawn wagon. At the same time, Pierre Revel and another gentleman are riding through the French countryside in a chauffeur-driven automobile. Pierre''s companion asks him, "What ever happened to that Marie St. Clair?" Pierre replies that he doesn''t know. The automobile and the horse-drawn wagon pass each other, heading in opposite directions.'
'drama','Newland Archer is engaged to May Mingott of a prominent New York family. Shortly after the engagement is announce, Newland finds himself attracted to May’s older married cousin Countess Ellen Olenska. After his marriage to May, Newland and Ellen agree to run away together. Before this can happen, May visits her husband’s lover and informs her that she is expecting a child. Ellen and Newland part ways, Newland vowing to be a better husband to his wife May.'
'historical','The story shifts between the British in Northern New York, and the colonial patriots in Massachusetts and Virginia. Much later in the film in New York, a little remembered sub-plot takes place.[4] British general Captain Walter Butler (Lionel Barrymore), a loyal and ruthless supporter to the king, leads the Iroquois Native Americans in viciously barraging attacks against the settlers, including the massacre of women and children, who are siding with the Revolution. In Lexington, Massachusetts, Nathan Holden (Neil Hamilton) works as an express rider and minute man for the Boston Committee of Public Safety. At a mission to deliver a dispatch to the Virginia legislature, he meets Nancy Montague (Carol Dempster) and falls in love with her, but her father Justice Montague (Erville Alderson), a Tory judge, is not impressed with the rider.[6] Captain Butler tries unsuccessfully to court Nancy. Nathan and Nancy declare that regardless of which side he fights for, they will always love each other. While visiting in Massachusetts, Justice Montague is accidentally shot by Nathan Holden. Nancy Montague’s brother, Charles Montague (Charles Emmett Mack), is influenced by George Washington’s heroism and decides that he wants to support the colonists. However, he dies shortly after being wounded at the Battle of Bunker Hill. Nancy hides the truth from her father when she tells him that her brother died fighting for the crown. Nancy and her father travel to Mohawk Valley New York to the home of her Uncle Ashleigh Montague while Holden visits George Washington (Arthur Dewey) at Valley Forge. He gets sent to New York with Morgan’s raiders to settle down the Native American attacks up north. Butler occupies the Montague estate. His men kill Montague''s brother and he arrests Montague and takes Nancy prisoner. Holden arrives to spy on Butler and overhears his plans for a massacre attack. He leaves to sound the alarm, reluctantly leaving Nancy behind with Butler. Butler plans to force himself on Nancy, but the Native Americans decide to attack immediately and Butler is compelled to join them. Nancy escapes when Butler leaves for the battle, and she and Montague reach the fort safely before the attack. The attackers mount ruthless attack on the fort, ultimately breaching the walls and killing many settlers.[4] The Morgan’s raiders arrive and liberate the fort, saving the lives of Montague and Nancy. A separate group of militia and Native Americans chase down and kill Butler, putting a stop to his plan.[6] Montague believes in Holden’s worth, and allows him and Nancy to be together. The film concludes with the surrender of General Cornwallis and the presidential inauguration of George Washington.'
'romance','Jamil (Ramon Novarro) is a soldier in the Bedouin defense forces during a war between Syria and Turkey, who has deserted his regiment. In a remote village, he encounters an orphan asylum run by American missionaries Dr. Hilbert (Jerrold Robertshaw) and his daughter Mary (Alice Terry). The village is attacked by the Turks, and its ruler, eager to placate the invaders, intends to hand over the children for slaughter; he disguises his intentions under a move to Damascus for their safety. The Bedouins arrive at the scene and reveal that Jamil is the son of the tribal leader. With his father''s death revealed, Jamil becomes the new leader of the tribe, which endows him with a sense of responsibility. Risking his own life, he proceeds to save the children, defeating the Turks and the local leader in the process (and winning the girl).'
'historical','In 1795, the cream of English aristocracy attend the wedding of "tradesman''s daughter" Margery. She loves Beau Brummel, a penniless captain in the Tenth Hussars, but has been pressured into agreeing to marry Lord Alvanley, exchanging her family''s wealth for social standing and a title. When Brummel comes to see her just before the wedding, she begs him to take her away, but her ambitious mother, Mrs. Wertham, intervenes, and Margery gives way. Embittered, Brummel decides to seek revenge against society using his "charm, wit and personal appearance". At a dinner given by the Prince of Wales for the officers of his regiment, the Prince is attracted to Mrs. Snodgrass, the innkeeper''s wife. When Brummel rescues him from the irate husband, he takes a great liking to the captain, enabling Brummel to attach himself to His Royal Highness. By 1811, Brummel has made his house in London the "rendezvous of the smart world" and himself the arbiter of fashion. When Lord Henry Stanhope catches him dallying with his infatuated wife, a duel ensues. Lord Henry misses, whereupon Brummel fires his pistol into the air. Afterward, however, Brummel informs Lady Hester Stanhope that he never loved her. She attracts the attention of the womanizing Prince. She and another enemy he has made set out to turn the Prince against him. Brummel unwittingly helps them, having become too sure of his position; he is rude to his royal friend. Brummel turns his attentions to the Duchess of York, the Prince''s sister-in-law. She agrees to a late night private supper, but Lady Margery shows up first. She warns him that his enemies are hard at work; one knows about the rendezvous. The Prince arrives unannounced, expecting to find the Duchess, but is (pleasantly) surprised to find Lady Margery instead. When she rejects his initial advances, he offers to appoint Brummel the Ambassador to France. Lady Margery is delighted at the prospect, but it is all for naught. Shortly afterward, the two men quarrel openly, and neither is interested in a reconciliation. No longer able to fend off his creditors as a result of the withdrawal of the Prince''s favor, Brummel flees to Calais to avoid going to debtors prison, accompanied only by his loyal butler Mortimer. Years pass, and the Prince, now King George IV, stops at Calais. In his entourage is Lady Margery. Both see Brummel standing by the side of the road. Without his master''s knowledge, Mortimer goes to see the King, pretending to represent Brummel in an effort to heal the breach. When Brummel finds out, he discharges Mortimer. Lady Margery comes to see Brummel in his garret. Her husband has died, and she asks him to marry her. He turns her down, saying he is too worn out and tired, perhaps even of love. After she departs, his resolution wavers, but he regains control of himself. In old age, Brummel ends up in the hospital prison of Bon Saveur. The ever-faithful Mortimer visits him, but Brummel''s mind has deteriorated - he does not recognize his old servant at first. Mortimer informs him that the King has died and that Lady Margery is very ill. The scene shifts to the latter''s bed. Her spirit leaves her body and travels to Brummel''s cell. When Brummel also dies, their youthful souls are joyfully reunited.'
'drama','Cecilie Brunner (Murray) was once a good natured woman. After the death of her mother, she becomes a cynical vamp. She falls in love with surgeon Peter Van Martyn (James Kirkwood, Sr.). Peter makes clear he does not approve her life style. This results in Cecilie even partying more. She ends up gambling her home away. Realizing her life style isn''t appropriate, Cecilie changes back into a sweet woman. However, she is paralyzed after being hit by a car, while saving a child. It is Peter who heals her.[3]'
'fantasy drama','The tactics of a vicious slumlord and greedy businessman finally drive a distraught man to commit suicide. The businessman is tried for murder and executed, and is afterward taken by demons to Hell where he will spend the rest of eternity'
'romance','Crippled by the war, Oliver Bashforth (Richard Barthelmess) moves into a lonely cottage in search of solitude. He meets Laura Pennington (May McAvoy), a plain and lonely woman, and marries her, primarily to escape from his energetic sister, Ethel (Florence Short). The unhappy couple allow their insecurities to suppress romance and happiness, but their mutual admiration grows and becomes love, manifested by the recognition of the inner beauty in each of them.[4]'
'drama','Margaret Selfridge (Hulette) lives with her affluent father, Simon (Currier) and her Aunt Abigail (Lucy Beamont) in a mansion in New York City. She is involved in a romantic relationship with Garry Homes (Earle), an honest man from a modest background. While walking through the city one day, Garry discovers Peggy crying outside a fruit stand, lost and alone. He quickly becomes fond of her, but he does not recognize her as his daughter, and takes her to the police station. The police call the Selfridges, but Garry leaves before they arrive to claim Peggy. He does however leave his dog behind to watch over Peggy; she becomes immediately attached to him and insists on adopting him. Another ex-convict engages Garry to help him commit a burglary. He is reluctant to participate, but finally decides that the money will help him get back on his feet. The Selfridge family decamps to their mansion in Westchester for the summer. One evening, Peggy asks if she can borrow her mother''s most cherished possession: her wedding ring, which she wears on a chain around her neck. Margaret agrees, and Peggy happily wears the necklace to bed. That night, Peggy is woken by noise in the house. She investigates and discovers Garry in the study as he is in the process of robbing the safe. She tells him he cannot steal her grandfather''s jewels, and offers him Margaret''s necklace in exchange. Garry immediately recognizes the ring on the necklace, and realizes that Peggy must be his daughter. Before he has a chance to explain the situation, Simon Selfridge returns home. He does not recognize Garry and shoots him, believing him to be an intruder. Simon calls a doctor, and Garry eventually recovers from his injury. Simon finally reconciles with his daughter and welcomes Garry to their home. The film concludes with the entire Selfridge clan, Garry included, living as a happy family.'
'drama','Kerry Harlan (La Rocque) is unable to work because he was injured in a battle with a shark, so his youthful wife Amy (Reynolds) becomes a fashion model. While she is away from home, Bertha, the wife of his surgeon, is trying to force her attentions on Kerry and is accidentally killed in an attempt to evade her husband. After the scandal Amy is courted by Tony Channing, but she returns to her husband and finds him near death from gas fumes. Because they both attempted to make suicide, their spirits are rejected by "the other side," and learning the truth from Bertha''s spirit they fight their way back to life.'
'romantic comedy','Harold Meadows (Lloyd) is a tailor''s apprentice for his uncle in Little Bend, California. He is so shy around women that he can barely speak to them (to stop his stuttering, his uncle has to blow a whistle). Despite this, Harold writes a "how to" book for young men entitled The Secret of Making Love, detailing how to woo different types of young women, such as "the vampire" and "the flapper" (in scenes that parodied two other popular films of the time, Trifling Women and Flaming Youth[citation needed]), and takes a train to see a publisher in Los Angeles. The same day, rich young Mary Buckingham (Ralston) boards the same train after her automobile breaks down in Little Bend. No dogs are allowed aboard, so she hides her Pomeranian under her shawl, but her pet jumps off as the train pulls away. Harold rescues her dog and helps Mary hide it from the conductor. She sees his manuscript, so he starts telling her about his book, overcoming his stuttering in his enthusiasm. They become so absorbed in each other that neither realizes that the train has reached its final destination and everyone else has departed. Upon returning home, Mary rejects the latest in a string of marriage proposals from persistent suitor Ronald DeVore, a self-centered rich man who is almost twice Mary''s age and who harbors no true feelings for her, but merely wants her as a trophy wife. After her car is repaired, Mary intentionally detours through Little Bend repeatedly, hoping to see Harold again. On one such trip, Ronald is also along for the ride, and his unwanted attentions cause Mary to swerve and get her car stuck near the outskirts of Little Bend. While Ronald walks back to town for a tow, Mary goes for a walk and happens to reunite with Harold. After telling Mary about the remainder of his book, Harold informs her that he is going to see the publisher, Roger Thornby, in a few days to deliver a new chapter that will be about her. They agree to meet again afterward. Meanwhile, Ronald runs into a middle-aged woman who asks if he is finally going to introduce her to his family, but he stalls, then rides away in the tow-vehicle. Mr. Thornby''s professional readers find Harold''s book hilariously absurd, so he rejects it. Without any royalty money, Harold figures he cannot ask Mary to marry him. So he pretends that he was only using her as part of his research. Heartbroken, Mary impulsively agrees to marry Ronald. Afterward, though, one of Mr. Thornby''s senior employees convinces him that, if the staff liked the book so much, there must be a market for it, so Thornby decides to publish it as "The Boob''s Diary". A few days later, a depressed Harold gets a letter from the publisher, but just rips it up without opening it, assuming that it is a rejection notice. Fortunately, his uncle notices that one of the scraps is part of an advance royalty check for $3,000; the accompanying letter states that the book will be published as a comedy. At first, Harold is outraged, but then he realizes that he can propose to Mary after all. However, when he sees a newspaper headline announcing Mary and Ronald''s wedding that same day at her family''s estate, he gives up. By chance, the same woman whom Ronald had met a few days earlier walks in and, seeing the newspaper story, tearfully exclaims that she is Ronald''s wife. As proof, she shows Harold a locket with the couple''s wedding portrait and the engraved words "to my wife" that Ronald had given her two years earlier. Harold embarks on a frenzied headlong dash, involving bootleggers, car chases and multiple changes of vehicle (from missing the train to various cars to a trolley to a police motorcycle to a horse-drawn wagon to horseback), through the countryside and along the crowded streets of Culver City and Los Angeles. He bursts in just in time, but he cannot stop stuttering long enough to expose Ronald''s intended bigamy. So Harold simply carries Mary off. When they are alone, he tells her about Ronald''s secret and shows her the locket. Mary gets Harold to propose (with an assist from a passing mail carrier''s whistle), and she accepts.'
'drama','John McTeague is a miner working in Placer County, California. A traveling dentist calling himself Dr. "Painless" Potter visits the town, and McTeague''s mother begs Potter to take her son on as an apprentice. Potter agrees and McTeague eventually becomes a dentist, practicing on Polk Street in San Francisco. Marcus Schouler brings Trina Sieppe, his cousin and intended fiancée, into McTeague''s office for dental work. Schouler and McTeague are friends and McTeague gladly agrees to examine her. As they wait for an opening, Trina buys a lottery ticket. McTeague becomes enamored with Trina and begs Schouler for permission to court Trina. After seeing McTeague''s conviction, Schouler agrees. Trina eventually agrees to marry McTeague and shortly afterwards her lottery ticket wins her $5,000.[a] Schouler bitterly claims that the money should have been his, causing a rift between McTeague and Schouler. After McTeague and Trina wed, they continue to live in their small apartment with Trina refusing to spend her $5,000. Schouler leaves the city to become a cattle rancher. Before he goes, he secretly, in order to ruin his former friend, reports McTeague for practicing dentistry without a license. McTeague is ordered to shut down his practice or face jail. Even though she has saved over $200 in addition to the original $5,000 from the lottery ticket, Trina is unwilling to spend her money. Money becomes increasingly scarce, with the couple forced to sell their possessions. McTeague finally snaps and bites Trina''s fingers in a fit of rage. Later, he goes fishing to earn money, taking Trina''s savings (now totaling $450). Trina''s bitten fingers become infected and have to be amputated. To earn money she becomes a janitor at a children''s school. She withdraws the $5,000 from the bank to keep it close to her, eventually spreading it on her bed so she can sleep on it. McTeague then returns, having spent the money he took, and asks Trina for more. The following day McTeague confronts Trina at the school. After a heated argument McTeague beats Trina to death and steals her $5,000. Now an outlaw, McTeague returns to Placer County and teams up with a prospector named Cribbens. Headed towards Death Valley, they find a large quantity of quartz and plan to become millionaires. Before they can begin mining, McTeague senses danger and flees into Death Valley with a single horse, the remaining money and one water jug. Several marshals pursue him, joined by Schouler. Schouler wants to catch McTeague personally and rides into Death Valley alone. The oppressive heat slows McTeague''s progress. Schouler''s progress is also beginning to wane when he spies McTeague and moves in to arrest him. After a confrontation, McTeague''s horse bolts and Schouler shoots it, puncturing the water container. The water spills onto the desert floor. The pair fight one last time, with McTeague proving the victor; however, Schouler has handcuffed himself to McTeague. The film ends with McTeague left in the desert with no horse and no water, handcuffed to a corpse and unable to reach the remaining money. Von Stroheim''s original edit contained two main sub-plots that were later cut. The point of these sub-plots was to contrast two possible outcomes of Trina and McTeague''s life together. The first depicted the lives of the junkman Zerkow and Maria Miranda Macapa, the young Mexican woman who collects junk for Zerkow and sold Trina the lottery ticket. Maria often talks about her imaginary solid gold dining set with Zerkow, who becomes obsessed by it. Eventually, believing she has riches hidden away, Zerkow marries her. He often asks about it, but she gives a different answer each time he mentions it. Zerkow does not believe her and becomes obsessed with prying the truth from her. He murders her and after having lost his mind, leaps into San Francisco Bay. The second sub-plot depicts the lives of Charles W. Grannis and Miss Anastasia Baker. Grannis and Baker are two elderly boarders who share adjoining rooms in the apartment complex where Trina and McTeague live. Throughout their time at the apartment complex, they have not met. They both sit close to their adjoining wall and listen to the other for company, so they know almost everything about each other. They finally meet and cannot hide their long-time feelings for each other. When they reveal their love, Grannis admits he has $5,000, making him just as rich as Trina. But this makes little difference to them. Eventually, they marry and a door connects their rooms.'
'drama','Paul Beaumont (Lon Chaney) is a scientist who labored for years alone to prove his radical theories on the origin of mankind. Baron Regnard (Marc McDermott) becomes his patron, enabling him to do research while living in his mansion. One day, Beaumont announces to his beloved wife Marie and the Baron that he has proved all his theories and is ready to present them before the Academy of the Sciences. He leaves the arrangements to the Baron. However, after Beaumont goes to sleep, Marie steals his key, opens the safe containing his papers, and gives them to the baron. On the appointed day, Paul travels to the Academy with the Baron. He is aghast when the Baron, instead of introducing him, takes credit for Paul''s work himself. After he recovers from the shock, Paul confronts him in front of everyone, but the Baron tells them that Paul is merely his assistant and slaps him. All of the academicians laugh at his humiliation. Paul later seeks comfort from his wife, but she brazenly admits she and the baron are having an affair and calls him a clown. Paul leaves them. Five years pass by. Paul is now a clown calling himself "HE who gets slapped", the star attraction of a small circus near Paris. His act consists of his getting slapped every evening by other clowns, and includes Paul pretending to present in front of the Academy of Science. Another of the performers is Bezano (John Gilbert), a daredevil horseback rider. Consuelo (Norma Shearer), the daughter of the impoverished Count Mancini, applies to join his act. Bezano falls in love with Consuelo, as does Paul. Consuelo and her father, however, are planning to restore the family''s fortunes with a marriage to her father''s wealthy friend. One night, during HE''s performance, he spots the baron in the audience. The baron goes backstage and begins flirting with Consuelo, which she does not like. The next day, the baron sends Consuelo jewelry, but she rejects it. When her father leaves for a meeting with the baron, Bezano takes Consuelo out to the countryside for a romantic meeting, where they declare their love for each other. Meanwhile, Count Mancini convinces the reluctant baron that the only way he can have Consuelo is by marrying her. The baron discards the heartbroken Marie, leaving her with a check. Later, HE admits to Consuelo he, too, is in love with her. She thinks he is kidding and laughingly slaps him. They are interrupted by the baron and the count, who inform Consuelo she will marry the baron after the night''s performance. When HE tries to interfere, he is locked in an adjoining room, where an angry lion is kept in a cage. He moves the cage so that, when he carefully opens it, only the door to the next room prevents the lion from escaping. HE re-enters the other room through the only other entrance (making sure to lock it behind him) and reveals his identity to the baron. HE threatens the baron, but the count stabs him with a sword. The baron and the count try to leave but, finding the main entrance locked, open the side door, releasing the lion. The animal kills the count, then the baron. However, the lion tamer shows up and saves HE from the same fate. HE goes on stage and collapses. He assures Consuelo he is happy and that she will be happy, before dying in her arms.'
'comedy','Toodie and Budge are identified as the two best children in the world. They enjoy a comfortable life with their parents Tom and Helen Lawrence. Helen''s brother is Harry Burton, a wealthy bachelor who, although never having had one, is an expert on knowing how to raise children. When Tom and Helen receive a letter from Harry, in which he announces he will travel to them for a vacation, they see an opportunity to get a break from the kids. Knowing that Harry is an expert on children, they assume that he will appreciate the gesture and leave just after he arrives. Unbeknownst to them, Harry only wrote a book about raising children because his publisher told him to, and actually he isn''t fond of children at all. He reluctantly takes the position as the babysitter of his nieces and is escorted by Alice Mayton, the Lawrence''s attractive neighbor. It soon becomes clear that Harry won''t get any rest, as the careless girls often annoy him by getting themselves into danger or going through his possessions. Many of the dangerous situations Toodie gets herself into include climbing a tree and attempting to shave herself. Although they always try to help him out, Toodie and Budge only make things worse. Harry is only irritated by their constant attempts to comfort him and isn''t able to take advantage of his own advice on raising children. He writes Helen a letter, in which he threatens to abandon the girls if she doesn''t return immediately. However, before he is able to send it he is interrupted by a visit from Alice. Alice has always been a big admirer of his work, but notices that he isn''t a real expert on parenting. Giving him the benefit of the doubt, she invites him over for dinner. Harry, secretly having a crush on Alice, accepts the invitation and shreds the letter into pieces. He wants to win over her affection at dinner and buys some fancy flowers. Unbeknownst to him, Toodie had secretly replaced the flowers with her doll. As he hands Alice the box, she is surprised to receive the doll, but thinks of it as a comic gesture. While Harry and Alice grow closer, the children run away to follow a dog they notice. Harry and Alice immediately start to look for them and they cross a group of Spanish gypsies. Noticing a piece of clothing on the ground belonging to one of the girls, Harry suspects that they have kidnapped the girls and violently starts to look for them. Meanwhile, the girls are playing with the dog on the railroad tracks and are almost hit by a train. Coincidentally, Tom and Helen are traveling on that train to surprise the girls with an early return. They are devastated that their daughters almost died and think that Harry is fully responsible. They start yelling at Harry, until they find out how fond the daughters are of him. The film ends with Harry and Alice kissing each other.'
'romance','American millionaire Samuel C. Adams brings his daughter Dorothy to England to see a specialist about her heart trouble. So that she will not be hounded by the press and fortune hunters, Dorothy makes herself up to look extremely plain. Impoverished Lord Paul Menford spies her without the hideous disguise and falls in love with her immediately. When he is mistaken for his uncle, the heart specialist Adams seeks, he goes along in order to meet her. Meanwhile, his agent sells the Menford family estate to Adams. When Menford finally admits the ruse, Dorothy sends him away. Later that night, he gets drunk and goes home, only he has forgotten that he no longer lives at the Menford estate. He crawls into his old room, only to find Dorothy there. Frightened, she makes him leave and barricades the door for good measure. However, he just reenters the room through another door. When she faints, he picks her up and carries her into another bedroom. The butler, his old former servant, sees him do this. The next morning, Dorothy comes down for breakfast, and is annoyed to find the butler has put out two table settings. When one of Paul''s friends shows up unexpectedly and finds them dining together, Paul introduces Dorothy as his wife to avoid a scandal. The butler overhears, and soon the joyous "news" has spread to the village. Dorothy''s father arrives. When the villagers gather outside to loudly wish the newlyweds well, Mr. Adams believes that his daughter has married as well. Paul eventually tries to clear things up, but Adams thinks he is just joking. Adams is finally convinced when he finds Paul preparing to sleep in a different bedroom from his "wife". Having gotten over her initial dislike for Paul, she agrees to his suggestion that they get married for real. However, when she overhears Joe Diamond congratulating Paul for landing a wealthy heiress and demanding 10% as promised, the wedding is off. Paul sadly leaves. Dorothy''s father sees that she is heartbroken without Paul. Paul returns, having received a letter from her, apologizing for her behaviour and asking him to come see her before he leaves for Paris. She is puzzled (but secretly overjoyed), as she did not write it. While Paul packs some of his belongings, she goes to consult her father, who confesses that he is responsible. She begs him to do something to keep Paul from leaving. He has Paul''s car sent away and creates a fake rainstorm using a hose. Paul is taken in at first, but then sees that it is only raining on one side of the house. Realizing Dorothy still loves him, Paul kisses her.'
'drama','Gritzko (John Gilbert) is a Russian nobleman and Tamara (Aileen Pringle) is the object of his desire.'
'comedy','Episodic in nature (effectively three short films merged into one), the first episode features Hubby winning a live turkey in a raffle and taking it home on a crowded streetcar, much to the chagrin of the other passengers. The second features Hubby grudgingly taking the family en masse out on his brand new Butterfly Six automobile, and the third is an escapade with his sleepwalking mother-in-law.'
'western','The film presents an idealized image of the construction of the American first transcontinental railroad. It culminates with the scene of driving of the golden spike at Promontory Summit on May 10, 1869. There is a note in the title before this scene that the two original locomotives from the 1869 event are used in the film, although this is false - both engines (Union Pacific No. 119 and Jupiter) were scrapped before 1910. Of course, a romantic story with love, treachery and revenge is also here. Main stars were George O''Brien and Madge Bellamy.'
'drama','A family from Poland has been left homeless in the wake of World War I. They move to Germany and struggle to survive the conditions there, during the Great Inflation. Inga (Carol Dempster) is a Polish war orphan who has only accumulated a small amount of money from the rubble and hopes to marry Paul (Neil Hamilton). Weakened by poison gas, Paul begins to invest in Inga''s future and he serves as their symbol of optimism.'
'historical','Following a disappointment in love, Lord Brereton assumes the name of Charles Fownes, arranges passage to the American Colonies as a bondservant, and finds a place with Squire Meredith, a wealthy New Jersey landowner. When Charles falls in love with the squire''s daughter, Janice, she is sent to live with an aunt in Boston. Janice learns of the planned British troop movement to the Lexington arsenal and gives the warning that results in Paul Revere''s ride. Charles reveals his true station and becomes an aide to Washington. When he is captured by the British, Janice arranges his escape and later helps him learn the disposition of the British troops at Trenton. Janice returns to her home and agrees to marry Philemon Hennion, an aristocrat of her father''s choosing. Charles and some Continental troops halt the wedding and confiscate the Meredith lands. Janice flees to Philadelphia, and Charles follows her. He is arrested but is freed when the British general, Howe, recognizes Charles as his old friend, Lord Brereton. Janice and her father retire with the British to Yorktown. During the bombardment by Washington''s forces, Lord Clowes binds Janice and abducts her in his coach. Charles rescues her. With peace restored, Janice and Charles meet at Mount Vernon, where they are to be married in the presence of President Washington.'
'comedy drama','Widower Colonel Dodge (Alec B. Francis) enjoys being single, but when Arbutus Quilty (Louise Fazenda), his former sweetheart, threatens to sue him for breach of promise, he decides its time for he and his daughter Mary (Eva Novak) to take themselves a little vacation trip to Florida. Angry, Arbutus enlists the aid of lady detective Miss Pink (Dot Farley) and follows the two to Florida. At his hotel, the Colonel enlists the aid of the hotel detective Listen Lester (Harry Myers) to get back the incriminating love letters he had written to Arbutus. The detective accomplishes his task but is himself foiled when Miss Pink recovers the letters. A hotel clerk then gets them back, but in turn loses them back to Arbutus. Mary in the meantime is sparking up a romance with Jack Griffin (George O''Hara), but Jack believes that the Colonel is her beau instead of her father and declines involvement. In desperation, Arbustus enlists the aid of Lester to fake she and Mary getting kidnapped in the hope that this will bring the men to their senses. One of the fake kidnappers takes himself too seriously and gets a bit rough with Mary. Jack rescues the women and he and Mary reconcile. Out of ideas, Arbustus decides to stop chasing the Colonel. When the Colonel realizes how much he would miss her attentions, he discovers that he does love her after all. Both couples get married.'
'comedy','The shop girl Tessie McGuire is invited by her boss to a fun party. There she acts like a Russian duchess. The owner of an expensive department store hires her to attract customers. As she finds her way in the New York''s higher milieu, she alienates most of her friends.'
'drama','The Duke of Chartres is in love with Princess Henriette, but she seemingly wants nothing to do with him. Eventually he grows tired of her insults and flees to England when Louis XV insists that the two marry. He goes undercover as Monsieur Beaucaire, the barber of the French Ambassador, and finds that he enjoys the freedom of a commoner’s life. After catching the Duke of Winterset cheating at cards, he forces him to introduce him as a nobleman to Lady Mary, with whom he has become infatuated. When Lady Mary is led to believe that the Duke of Chartres is merely a barber she loses interest in him. She eventually learns that he is a nobleman after all and tries to win him back, but the Duke of Chartres opts to return to France and Princess Henriette who now returns his affection.'
'comedy','Wealthy Rollo Treadway (Buster Keaton) suddenly decides to propose to his neighbor across the street, Betsy O''Brien (Kathryn McGuire), and sends his servant to book passage for a honeymoon sea cruise to Honolulu. When Betsy rejects his sudden offer however, he decides to go on the trip anyway, boarding without delay that night. Because the pier number is partially covered, he ends up on the wrong ship, the Navigator, which Betsy''s rich father (Frederick Vroom) has just sold to a small country at war. Agents for the other small nation in the conflict decide to set the ship adrift that same night. When Betsy''s father checks up on the ship, he is captured and tied up ashore by the saboteurs. Betsy hears his cry for help and boards the ship to look for him, just before it is cut loose. The Navigator drifts out into the Pacific Ocean. The two unwitting passengers eventually find each other. At first, they have great difficulty looking after themselves (as they had servants to do that for them), but adapt after a few weeks. At one point, they sight a navy ship and hoist a brightly colored flag, not realizing it signals that the ship is under quarantine. As a result, the other vessel turns away. Finally, the ship grounds itself near an inhabited tropical island and springs a leak. While Rollo dons a deep sea diving suit and submerges to patch the hole, the natives canoe out and take Betsy captive. When Rollo emerges from the ocean, the natives are scared off, enabling him to rescue Betsy and take her back to the ship. The natives return and try to board the ship. After a fierce struggle, Rollo and Betsy try to escape in a small dinghy. It starts to sink, and the natives swiftly overtake them in their canoes. Just when all seems lost, a navy submarine surfaces right underneath them and they are saved.'
'romance','Madame L''Enigme (Laurette Taylor) is a fortune-teller whose client Mario (Warner Oland) recognises her as a woman who disappeared in a cloud of scandal after her husband''s suicide.'
'fantasy, family','In the story, Peter Pan, a magical boy who refuses to grow up, brings the Darling children (Wendy, John, and Michael) from London to Neverland, where they have adventures that include a confrontation with the pirate Captain Hook and his crew. Later, the children feel homesick and wish to go home. Wendy invites Peter and the Lost Boys to come with them so they can be adopted. The Lost Boys are eager to do so, but Peter refuses because he does not wish to grow up. Wendy and her brothers and the Lost Boys are captured by the pirates, but rescued by Peter, who forces Captain Hook to walk the plank and be eaten by the crocodile who once ate his hand. Wendy and the boys return to the Darling home, where Mrs. Darling meets Peter for the first time and offers to adopt him, but he refuses for the same reason that he refused to go back with Wendy and the boys - he has no intention of growing up. Peter asks Wendy to return to Neverland with him, and Mrs. Darling agrees to allow Wendy to go back once a year to help Peter with his spring cleaning.'
'drama','Jean Leonnec (Ramon Novarro) and Marise La Noue (Enid Bennett) are penniless lovers who elope to Paris. However, they are separated shortly after their arrival, leading to a downward spiral in each of their lives. She becomes a prostitute known as ''the red lily''; he learns the ways of the underworld from Bo-Bo (Wallace Beery).'
'drama','In Renaissance Florence, a Florentine trader meets a shipwrecked stranger, who introduces himself as Tito Melema, a young Italianate-Greek scholar. Tito becomes acquainted with several other Florentines, including Nello the barber and a young girl named Tessa. He is also introduced to a blind scholar named Bardo de'' Bardi, and his daughter Romola. As Tito becomes settled in Florence, assisting Bardo with classical studies, he falls in love with Romola.'
'swashbuckler','At the instigation of his half brother Lionel (Lloyd Hughes), Oliver Tressilian (Milton Sills), a wealthy baronet, is shanghaied and blamed for the death of Peter Godolphin (Wallace MacDonald), brother of Oliver''s fiancée, whom Lionel actually has slain. At sea Oliver is captured by Spaniards and made a galley slave, but when he escapes to the Moors he becomes Sakr-el-Bahr, the scourge of Christendom. Learning of Rosamund''s (Enid Bennett) impending marriage to his half brother, he kidnaps both of them, but to avoid the risk of giving her to Asad-ed-Din (Frank Currier), the Basha of Algiers, he surrenders to a British ship. Rosamund intercedes to save his life, and following the death of Lionel they are married.'
'drama','The films opens in present. 75-year-old Mary Carlton is depressed over her husband John''s illness. She feels her life has no use if he dies. She starts reading her diary, after which the film jumps to 1865 in the time she fell in love with John. She feels she has to hide her love for her strict mother, fearing she will disapprove because of their social class differences. Mary lives within the very wealthy Marlowe family and grows up to be a lady with manners, while John is a working class employee. When her parents find out about the affair, they are outrageous. They forbid her from ever seeing John again. However, Mary tells them she only loves John and will never marry anybody if she cannot see him anymore. Her father William locks her into her own room until she stops being a rebel. Meanwhile, she receives a letter from John, who announces he has been fired over their love affair. Later that night, John sneaks into her room by the balcony and announces he will leave for America. Despite knowing her parents will never talk to her again, she decides to go with him. Before they can leave, William comes in. He tells Mary he will send her to Scotland to live with her grandmother. After he leaves the room, Mary writes a farewell letter and sneaks off with John. By the time it''s 1870, she lives with John in a poor house. He works all day, while Mary is giving birth to a son. One day, a gang threatens to kill John. He wants to surrender so they will not kill Mary and the baby as well, but Mary demands him to fight. He does as his wife tells him and eventually defeats the gang. Years pass by. In 1888, Mary celebrates her 39th birthday and is having contact with her family again. She finds out John is having a mistress, Estelle. Mary feels humiliated, but Estelle makes things worse when she confronts Mary with the fact she cannot make her husband happy. Mary grants her husband a divorce, but he does not want to leave her. He admits he has had an affair with Estelle, but that it didn''t mean anything. They reunite, although John announces he has lost all of his money. The film goes back to present, where Mary is told her husband has recovered from his illness.'
'comedy','A movie theater projectionist and janitor (Buster Keaton) is in love with a beautiful girl (Kathryn McGuire). However, he has a rival, the "local sheik" (Ward Crane). Neither has much money. The projectionist buys a $1 box of chocolates, all he can afford, and changes the price to $4 before giving it and a ring to her. The sheik steals and pawns the girl''s father''s pocket watch for $4. With the money, he buys a $3 box of chocolates for the girl. When the father notices his watch is missing, the sheik slips the pawn ticket into the projectionist''s pocket unnoticed. The projectionist, studying to be a detective, offers to solve the crime, but when the pawn ticket is found in his pocket, he is banished from the girl''s home. While showing a film about the theft of a pearl necklace, the projectionist falls asleep and dreams that he enters the movie as a detective, Sherlock Jr. The other actors are replaced by the projectionist''s "real" acquaintances. The dream begins with the theft being committed by the villain (played by the local sheik) with the aid of the butler (played by the hired man). The girl''s father calls for the world''s greatest detective, and Sherlock Jr. arrives. Fearing that they will be caught, the villain and the butler attempt to kill Sherlock through several traps, poison, and an elaborate pool game with an exploding 13 ball. When these fail, the villain and butler try to escape. Sherlock Jr. tracks them down to a warehouse but is outnumbered by the gang that the villain was selling the necklace to. During the confrontation, Sherlock discovers that they have kidnapped the girl. With the help of his assistant, Gillette, Sherlock Jr. manages to escape this situation, save the girl, and defeat the gang. When he awakens, the girl shows up to tell him that she and her father learned the identity of the real thief after she went to the pawn shop to see who actually pawned the pocket watch. As a reconciliation scene happens to be playing on the screen, the projectionist mimics the actor''s romantic behavior.'
'drama','A dancer known as Lou Lorraine feels her life is going nowhere. She is married to Jim, who is working as a pianist at the same cabaret in a small village Lou is working at. One day, a man nicknamed "Dangerous Dan" McGrew promises to make a big star on Broadway out of her, after which she immediately leaves with him. She swears on staying faithful to her husband, promising to earn money to have Jim and her son sent to New York. Jim, however, does not trust Dan and follows them to New York, where everything goes out of hand.'
'swashbuckler','Ahmed robs as he pleases in the city of Baghdad. Wandering into a mosque, he tells the holy man he disdains his religion; his philosophy is, "What I want, I take." That night, he sneaks into the palace of the caliph using a magic rope he stole during ritual prayers. All thoughts of plunder are forgotten when he sees the sleeping princess, the caliph''s daughter. The princess''s Mongol slave discovers him and alerts the guards, but he gets away. When his associate Abu reminds the disconsolate Ahmed that a bygone thief once stole another princess during the reign of Haroun al-Rashid, Ahmed sets out to do the same. The next day is the princess''s birthday. Three princes arrive, seeking her hand in marriage (and the future inheritance of the city). Another of the princess''s slaves foretells that she will marry he who first touches a rose-tree in her garden. The princess watches anxiously as first the glowering Prince of the Indies, then the obese Prince of Persia (an uncredited Mathilde Comont), and finally the Prince of the Mongols pass by the rose-tree. The mere sight of the Mongol fills the princess with fear, but when Ahmed appears (disguised in stolen garments as a suitor), she is delighted. The Mongol slave tells her countryman of the prophecy, but before he can touch the rose-tree, Ahmed''s startled horse tosses its rider into it. That night, following ancient custom, the princess chooses Ahmed for her husband. Out of love, Ahmed gives up his plan to abduct her and confesses all to her in private. The Mongol prince learns from his spy, the princess''s Mongol slave, that Ahmed is a common thief and informs the caliph. Ahmed is lashed mercilessly, and the caliph orders he be torn apart by a giant ape, but the princess has the guards bribed to let him go. When the caliph insists she select another husband, her loyal slave advises her to delay. She asks that the princes each bring her a gift after "seven moons"; she will marry the one who brings her the rarest. In despair, Ahmed turns to the holy man. He tells the thief to become a prince, revealing to him the peril-fraught path to a great treasure. The Prince of the Indies obtains a magic crystal ball from the eye of a giant idol, which shows whatever he wants to see, while the Persian prince buys a flying carpet. The Mongol prince leaves behind his henchman, telling him to organize the soldiers he will send to Bagdad disguised as porters. (The potentate has sought all along to take the city; the beautiful princess is only an added incentive.) After he lays his hands on a magic apple which has the power to cure anything, even death, he sends word to the Mongol slave to poison the princess. After many adventures, Ahmed gains a cloak of invisibility and a small chest of magic powder which turns into whatever he wishes when he sprinkles it. He races back to the city. The three princes meet as agreed at a caravansary before returning to Bagdad. The Mongol asks the Indian to check whether the princess has waited for them. They discover that she is near death, and ride the flying carpet to reach her. Then the Mongol uses the apple to cure her. The suitors argue over which gift is rarest, but the princess points out that without any one gift, the remaining two would have been useless in saving her life. Her loyal slave shows her Ahmed in the crystal ball, so the princess convinces her father to deliberate carefully on his future son-in-law. The Mongol prince chooses not to wait, unleashing his secret army that night and capturing Bagdad. Ahmed arrives at the city gate, shut and manned by Mongols. When he conjures up a large army with his powder, the Mongol soldiers flee. The Mongol prince is about to have one of his men kill him when the Mongol slave suggests he escape with the princess on the flying carpet. Ahmed liberates the city and rescues the princess, using his cloak of invisibility to get through the Mongols guarding their prince. In gratitude, the caliph gives his daughter to him in marriage.'
'romance drama','The Queen of Sardalia is in a bad marriage with the brutal King Constantine II. She decides to get away from her normal life for a period and goes on vacation to Switzerland. There, she meets Paul Verdayne. They have an affair, which lasts for three weeks.[5]'
'drama','John Woolfolk and his wife are riding down a country lane in a horse-drawn wagon. They have an accident, and while John survives unharmed, his wife is killed. Disillusioned, he adopts a reclusive life on the sea, sailing along the Atlantic coast in his schooner Yankee, accompanied only by his ship''s mate, Paul Halvard. One afternoon, the men steer the Yankee across a bar into an inlet along the Georgia coast. The inlet is inhabited by Litchfield Stope (the master of the once-grand house that sits on the inlet, who developed a lifelong distrust of strangers during the American Civil War) his granddaughter Millie, and Nicholas, a "homicidal maniac" (according to a murder charge) who had bullied his way into Stope''s household. Nicholas wants to marry Millie and threatens to place her in an swamp full of alligators if she refuses to kiss him. After anchoring the Yankee, John takes a rowboat ashore. He briefly meets Millie and she gives him a few wild oranges before he goes back to his boat. Nicholas proves hostile to John and Paul when they go on the island to get some fresh water, as he doesn''t want them to fall in love with Millie. The next day, when John and Paul are on the Yankee''s deck, Millie comes to the shore and asks to be invited to come aboard. Once aboard, they begin a brief voyage. During the trip, Millie says she envies John''s freedom, but he corrects her, invoking his dead wife. When they go back to the island, they are greeted by Nicholas who is carrying a concealed knife. Nicholas and John have short fight, ending with an unharmed John and an angry Nicholas. That night Nicholas confronts Millie and asks her to marry him. When Millie says she is not interested, he threatens her. Meanwhile, John, still fearful of becoming attached to someone, instructs Paul to get the ship under way immediately. Two days later, he has a change of heart and steers the Yankee back into the inlet. He meets Millie again and they say that they love with each other. After explaining that she is afraid of Nicholas, John convinces her to go to the wharf with her grandfather at eight o''clock that night. That evening, Nicholas sees Millie and Litchfield attempting to escape. He kills Litchfield and ties up Millie in a bed upstairs with a gag over her mouth. At nine o''clock, worried by the fact that nobody came to the wharf, John goes to the house to investigate. As he accidentally makes some noise, Nicholas finds him and they fight each other. Meanwhile, Millie had managed to free herself after a long struggle. She and John (who survived the fight unharmed) head to the wharf and make it safely aboard. Paul warns that it is low tide and that the boat would just barely clear the bar, but John convinces him to raise the sails anyway. Nicholas, using a gun John dropped during the fight, begins shooting at the boat, wounding Paul. A vicious dog that Litchfield had kept chained up breaks free and kills Nicholas. Millie manages to safely steer the boat past the bar. In the final scene, the next day, John and Millie kiss each other as a healing Paul watches.'
'comedy drama','Mary (Eleanor Boardman) is a girl wooed by two suitors but made afraid of marriage by the quarrelling of her parents.'
'comedy','Through a series of confusions, Dudley Ainsworth (Douglas MacLean) is required to travel on a passenger ship to Brazil, posing as tha American consul to a South American country. O the ship, he meets Margarita Carrosa (Patsy Ruth Miller) and becomes embroiled in a conspiracy involving Margarita and thieves planning to steal gold from the American consulate in Rio de Janeiro. Upon arrival in Brazil, Margarita is taken hostage by the thieves, and Ainsworth sends word to the U. S. Navy before rushing to an estate where Margarita is being held captive. Ainsworth captures the thieves and rescues the girl. The navy Admiral (Eric Mayne) arrives with the real Yankee consul to reveal that the entire set of events was a prank played on Ainsworth by his friends.'
'adventure','A Solomon Islands plantation owner, David Sheldon (Tom Moore) becomes ill from blackwater fever following the death of many of his fieldhands from the disease. Joan Lackland (Pauline Starke), a female soldier of fortune, arrives by schooner in the islands. Enlisting the aid of her Kanaka crew, she defends Sheldon from an attack by the natives, led by Googomy (Noble Johnson). Joan becomes David''s business partner after nursing him back to health and helps protect his mortgaged property from two greedy moneylenders. In attempting to gain revenge, the moneylenders incite the natives to revolt.[3][4]'
'epic','Ben-Hur is a wealthy young Jewish prince and boyhood friend of the powerful Roman tribune, Messala. When an accident and a false accusation leads to Ben-Hur''s arrest, Messala, who has become corrupt and arrogant, makes sure Ben-Hur and his family are jailed and separated. Ben-Hur is sentenced to slave labor in a Roman war galley. Along the way, he unknowingly encounters Jesus, the carpenter''s son who offers him water. Once aboard ship, his attitude of defiance and strength impresses a Roman admiral, Quintus Arrius, who allows him to remain unchained. This actually works in the admiral''s favor because when his ship is attacked and sunk by pirates, Ben-Hur saves him from drowning. Arrius then treats Ben-Hur as a son, and over the years the young man grows strong and becomes a victorious chariot racer. This eventually leads to a climactic showdown with Messala in a chariot race, in which Ben-Hur is the victor. However, Messala does not die, as he does in the more famous 1959 remake of the film. Ben-Hur is eventually reunited with his mother and sister, who are suffering from leprosy but are miraculously cured by Jesus.[3]'
'war','In the United States in 1917, James "Jim" Apperson''s (John Gilbert) idleness (in contrast to his hardworking brother) incurs the great displeasure of his wealthy businessman father. Then America enters World War I. Jim informs his worried mother that he has no intention of enlisting, and his father threatens to kick him out of the house if he does not join. However, when he runs into his patriotic friends at a send-off parade, he is persuaded to enlist, making his father very proud. During training, Jim makes friendships with Southern construction worker Slim (Karl Dane) and Bronx bartender Bull (Tom O''Brien). Their unit ships out to France, where they are billeted at a farm in the village of Champillon in the Marne. All three men are attracted to Melisande (Renée Adorée), whose mother owns the farm. She repulses all their advances, but gradually warms to Jim, bonding at first over chewing gum. They eventually fall in love, despite not being able to speak each other''s language. One day, however, Jim receives a letter and a photograph from Justyn (Claire Adams), which reveals that they are engaged. When Melisande sees the picture, she realizes the situation and runs off in tears. Before Jim can decide what to do, his unit is ordered to the front. Melisande hears the commotion and races back, just in time for the lovers to embrace and kiss. The Americans march towards the front and are strafed by an enemy fighter before it is shot down. The unit is sent to the attack immediately, advancing against snipers and machine guns in the woods, then more machine guns, artillery, and poison gas in the open. They settle down in a makeshift line. Jim shelters in a shellhole with Slim and Bull. That night, orders come down for one man to go out and eliminate a troublesome mortar crew; Slim wins a spitting contest for the opportunity. He succeeds, but is spotted and wounded on the way back. After listening to Slim''s pleas for help, Jim cannot stand it any longer and goes to his rescue against orders. Bull follows, but is shot and killed. By the time Jim reaches Slim, he is already dead. Jim is then shot in the leg. When a German (George Beranger) comes to finish him off, Jim shoots and wounds him. The German starts crawling back to his line. Jim catches up to him in another shellhole, but, face to face, cannot bring himself to finish him off with his bayonet. Instead, he gives his erstwhile enemy a cigarette. Soon after, the German dies. Fortunately for Jim, he is not stuck in no man''s land for long; the Americans attack, and he is taken away to a hospital. From another patient, he learns that Champillon has changed hands four times. Worried about Melisande, Jim sneaks out of the hospital and hitches a ride. When he gets to the farmhouse, he finds it damaged and empty. Melisande and her mother have joined a stream of refugees. Jim collapses and is carried off in an ambulance by retreating soldiers. After the war ends, Jim goes home to America. Before he arrives, his mother overhears Justyn and Jim''s brother Harry (Robert Ober) discussing what to do; in Jim''s absence, they have fallen in love. When Jim appears, it is revealed that he has had his leg amputated. Later, Jim tells his mother about Melisande; she tells him to go back and find her. When he returns to the farm, Melisande rushes into his arms.'
'drama','Matrimony is not only a good thing, but also a good financial deal: Lawyer Dick Tyler (Conrad Nagel) makes his merger bid for artist Doris (Marguerite De La Motte) as his partner Jim Knight (Lewis Stone) squanders the firm''s asset on gold-digger Evelyn (Paulette Duval).'
'romance drama','In the 1890s, young Lady Catherine (Joan Crawford) decides to leave her husband (and her son Arnold) in favor of her lover ("Hughie" Porteous). Thirty years later, young Elizabeth (Eleanor Boardman) is facing the same choice between her husband (the now grown Arnold, played by Creighton Hale) and lover (Malcolm McGregor). In the meantime, Arnold''s mother Lady Catherine and lover Lord Porteous are coming to visit.'
'drama','Valentino plays Count Rodrigo Torriani, an Italian noble. A charming libertine, his weakness is women – the "cobras" referred to in the title of the film. Roridgo accepts an invitation from friend Jack Dorning (Ferguson) to come to New York City to work as an antiques expert. While the job is rewarding, Rodrigo finds the temptation from the women surrounding him, including Dorning''s secretary Mary Drake (Olmstead) and wife Elise (Naldi) challenging. When Jack is away, Elise reveals to Rodrigo that she is still in love with him. The two arrange to meet at a hotel. However, at the last minute, Rodrigo remembers he cannot betray his friend and refuses to go to the rendezvous. It turns out to be a wise decision; the hotel burns to the ground in the middle of the night, killing Elise. Rodrigo desperately wants a relationship with Mary. However, after Elise''s death, he turns Mary''s attentions toward Jack and decides to leave New York. The film ends with Rodrigo gazing out at the sea and the Statue of Liberty as he sets sail back to Europe. The production of Cobra was marred by bickering and soaring production costs. Furthermore, its studio Paramount Pictures, unhappy with the final film and fearing it would flop with audiences and critics, held off releasing it until Valentino (whose popularity had declined somewhat) appeared in a stronger, unequivocally successful picture. Eventually Cobra was released in late 1925, a few weeks after what proved to be Valentino''s comeback feature, The Eagle. Cobra has survived and has been made available to the public, on both VHS and DVD, by independent film dealers and major movie distributors.'
'drama','The King of Illyris (Lewis Stone) marries a neighboring princess (Alice Terry), who finds out he has a mistress, Sephora (Helena D''Algy). Revolted, she turns to Prince Alexei (John Bowers) for friendship. Turmoil increases as a revolution demands the abdication of the King and the Queen opposes this decision.'
'romantic comedy','On a ship sailing from England to India, Ann Church (Laura La Plante) meets young and dashing Major Anthony Seymour (Eugene O''Brien), falls in love and makes some innocent advances to gain his attentions. Ann is 19, but looks 15. The Major at first resists her advances because he believes she is that young, and later he holds back after learning that Ann''s mother Muriel (Hedda Hopper) was his ex-girlfriend. Another passenger, Gilchrist (Jean Hersholt) who is a cad, takes advantage of Ann''s naiveté and places her in a compromising position. To save her reputation, the Major proposes to Ann and she accepts. When they arrive in Bombay, Gilchrist gets even by telling Ann that the Major had had an affair with her mother, causing Ann to break the engagement. Angry, the Major follows Gilchrist off ship and thrashes him. As she prepares to return alone to England, the Major forces Gilchrist to admit to Ann that the relationship between the Major and Ann''s mother was platonic and never romantic. The young couple reunite and are later married at sea.'
'drama','During the First World War Captain Alan Trent - on leave in England with his fiancée Kitty Vane - is suddenly recalled to the front, before having been able to get a marriage license. Alan and Kitty spend a night of love at a country inn "without benefit of clergy" and he sets off. At the front things go badly for Alan, who is blinded and is captured by the Germans. He is reported dead, and his friend, Captain Gerald Shannon, discreetly woos Kitty, seeking to soothe her grief with his gentle love. After the war, however, Gerald discovers that Alan is still alive, in a remote corner of England, writing children''s stories for a living. Loyal to his former comrade in arms, Gerald informs Kitty of Alan''s reappearance. She goes to him, and Alan conceals his blindness and tells Kitty that he no longer cares for her. She sees through his deception, however, and they are reunited.'
'swashbuckler','Don Diego de la Vega (Zorro)''s son, Cesar (Douglas Fairbanks), is in Spain finishing his education. While Cesar is showing off to friends his remarkable prowess with the whip, he accidentally clips off the feather shako on the hat of Don Sebastian (Donald Crisp) of the Palace Guard. Although Cesar apologizes immediately, Sebastian is unforgiving. Their duel is interrupted by a runaway bull. Trapped on the ground with his sword belt tangled in his boot, certain to be gored by the bull, Sebastian is saved at the last minute by Cesar. This further infuriates him. The action is observed by Queen Isabella (Stella De Lanti) and her guest, Austrian Archduke Paul (Warner Oland); she requests Cesar''s company immediately. Another friend of Cesar, Don Fabrique Borusta (Jean Hersholt), offers to bring him to Her Majesty. Meanwhile, Cesar encounters Dolores (Mary Astor), daughter of his father''s old friend, General de Muro (Jack McDonald), as she poses for a sculptor. It is love at first sight. But Sebastian, who comes from a poor family, has set his sights on Dolores and her family''s wealth, and is determined to win her. Later, the Archduke invites Cesar to paint the town, with Sebastian as their "duenna." In a local tavern the Archduke offends the patrons, all seeming ruffians, by flirting with the dancer. Sebastian contrives his and the Duke''s escape, but locks Cesar in the tavern to defend himself against the cutthroats. In the carriage that takes them away from what he is sure will be Cesar''s death, Sebastian declares he has a meeting with Dolores. The Archduke invites himself along. While Sebastian asks the General for his daughter''s hand, the Archduke sees Dolores serenaded by Cesar, who escaped (easily) and even acquired a guitar as a souvenir. Seeing the reactions of the young couple, the Archduke knows Cesar has won Dolores''s heart. Although penniless, Don Fabrique has designs on succeeding in society. He glues together a discarded invitation to the Archduke’s Grand Ball, and crashes the party. At the ball, Cesar and Sebastian sit on either side of Dolores, both seeming frustrated in their efforts to woo her. The Archduke summons her to him. When Cesar sees the Archduke caress Dolores''s cheek, Cesar becomes jealous and goes to confront him. But the Archduke assures him that he is working in Cesar''s favor, and proves it by dragging Sebastian to another room to play cards while Cesar and Dolores dance together. Cesar pulls Dolores to a balcony for ardent lovemaking. Fabrique sees them; when the pair are interrupted by Dolores’s father, General de Muro, who recognizes Cesar and is ready to give his blessing, Fabrique believes they are about to be betrothed. In the card room, the Archduke declares that Sebastian is as unlucky at cards as he is in love. Franque tiptoes in, and tells the Archduke that he saw Cesar and Dolores kissing: surely they will be married now. The Archduke summons Cesar to congratulate him, to the horror of Sebastian. When he enters, Cesar is offended at the impropriety of this news, and learns that the source was Fabrique. Such bad manners should not go unpunished. He informs the Archduke that someone here doesn''t belong, and asks if he should remove him. Archduke Paul nods, and Cesar pulls Fabrique out of the room by tugging his nose. The Archduke continues to taunt Sebastian, a foolish move when Sebastian, enraged by jealousy, pulls his sword and stabs the Archduke before he realizes what he has done. He hides when Cesar, hearing something, enters, then strikes Cesar unconscious. He frames him for the Archduke''s murder, then casually leaves. With his last dying energy, the Archduke pulls a playing card off the table and writes on it: Sebastian assassinated me. Archduke Paul. Fabrique enters, finds Cesar unconscious, finds the playing card and, miffed at Cesar''s insult, takes it. Shortly thereafter he confronts Sebastian with his demands: to be appointed Civil Governor. Both stand by while the Guard arrests Cesar for the murder and orders his immediate execution to prevent an international incident. But General de Muro offers Cesar a gentleman’s way out by giving him a dagger. Cesar pretends to stab himself and falls to the moat below the castle. Months pass, while Cesar hides in the ruins of the old family castle. He pretends to be Don Q, for "a trick must be answered by a trick!" Fabrique has become Civil Governor, receiving regular pay-offs from Sebastian. Fabrique has even taken over Carlo''s servants, and maidservant Lola (Lottie Pickford), seeing how Sebastian behaves around Fabrique, runs to tell Cesar that although gossip says they are close friends, in truth Sebastian is afraid of Fabrique. This will prove the leverage Cesar needs to establish his innocence. After months of mourning over Cesar, Dolores is pushed to marry Sebastian. Just as she is about to sign the marriage contract with Sebastian, Cesar appears at the window. He is alive! The Queen orders Cesar’s arrest. The best man to find him: that one-eyed ferret, Colonel Matsado (Albert MacQuarrie). But when Matsado stops at a country inn on his way into the city, Cesar waylays him, steals his uniform, and impersonates him. Back in the city Cesar as Matsado pretends to beat his (now Fabrique''s) old manservant Robledo (Charles Stevens) for information on Cesar''s whereabouts, then convinces Fabrique to accompany him to the ruins where Cesar has been living these past months. There he is determined to find what hold Fabrique has on Sebastian. In a whirlwind finish, Sebastian and the real Matsado track Cesar to his lair, as do his father, Zorro (Fairbanks), who with the mute faithful family servant Bernardo (Tote Du Crow), has sailed from California to Spain to help. On the way to the ruins they pass Dolores and her mother along the same road. Finally, as all gather at the ruins, Zorro and Don Q battle the soldiers, Fabrique confesses, Sebastian is beaten, de Muro recognizes his old friend, the villains are arrested, and Cesar and Dolores reunited.'
'historical','Vladimir Dubrovsky (Valentino), a Cossack serving in the Russian army, comes to the notice of the Czarina (Louise Dresser) when he rescues Mascha (Vilma Bánky), a beautiful young lady, and her aunt trapped in a runaway stagecoach. He is delighted when the Czarina offers to make him a general, but horrified when she tries to seduce him. He flees and the Czarina puts a price on his head. Soon afterwards, he receives a letter from his father informing him that the evil nobleman Kyrilla Troekouroff (James A. Marcus) has taken over his lands and is terrorizing the countryside. Hurrying home, Vladimir learns that his father has died. Vowing to avenge his father and help the victimized peasantry, he adopts a black mask and becomes the Black Eagle, a Robin Hood figure. Discovering that Kyrilla is Mascha''s father, he takes the place of a tutor who has been sent for from France, but not previously seen by anyone in the household. Vladimir is thus able to become part of Kyrilla''s household. As Vladimir''s love for Mascha grows, he becomes more and more reluctant to continue seeking revenge against her father, and the two eventually flee the Troekouroff estate. Vladimir is captured by the Czarina''s men, but the Czarina, once determined to have him executed, has a last-minute change of heart, and she allows Vladimir, given a new French name, and Mascha to leave Russia for Paris.'
'drama','American millionaire Frederick Harmon (played by Lionel Barrymore) is in Paris, France, for business and pleasure. While enjoying the Parisian night life, he meets and falls in love with Ginette (played by Hope Hampton), a fashion model who moonlights as an apache dancer in a nightclub. They marry and he returns to New York with her. When Harmon meets the urbane divorcee Nina Olmstead (played by Louise Glaum) he becomes involved in an affair. Ginette discovers her husband''s infidelity and decides to win him back by going out with an old boyfriend, Jean (played by Jean Del Val), a member of the Paris underworld. Nina schemes to end the marriage of the Harmons using the seeming romance between Ginette and Jean. Harmon learns of Nina''s treachery and her attempt to estrange the couple fails. He realizes that Ginette was merely trying to make him jealous and that he completely trusts her loyalty to him. They are happily reconciled.'
'comedy','Harold Lamb (Harold Lloyd), a bright-eyed but naïve young man, enrolls at Tate University. On the train there, he meets Peggy (Jobyna Ralston). They are attracted to each other. Harold decides that the best way to ensure his popularity at school is to emulate his movie idol, The College Hero, down to mimicking a little jig he does before greeting anyone, and taking his nickname, "Speedy". However, the College Cad (Brooks Benedict) quickly makes him the butt of an ongoing joke, of which the freshman remains blissfully unaware. Harold thinks he is popular, when in fact he is the laughingstock of the whole school. His only real friend is Peggy, who turns out to be his landlady''s daughter. She is described in one of the film''s title cards as "the kind of girl your mother must have been". He tries out for the football team. The coach (Pat Harmon) is unimpressed, but as Harold has damaged their only practice tackle dummy, the coach uses him in its place. At the end of practice, though, he approves of Harold''s enthusiasm (undiminished after repeated tackling). The coach is about to dismiss the freshman when Chet Trask (James Anderson), the captain and star of the team, suggests making him their water boy, while letting him think he has made the squad. Harold is persuaded to host the annual "Fall Frolic" dance. His tailor is late making his suit; with the dance well underway, it is barely being held together by basting stitches, but Harold puts it on and hopes for the best. During the party, his clothes start to fall apart, despite the efforts of the tailor (hiding in a side room) to effect repairs. When Harold sees the College Cad being too forward with Peggy, working as a hatcheck girl, Harold knocks him down. The incensed Cad then tells him just what everyone really thinks of him. Peggy advises him to stop putting on an act and be himself. Harold is determined to prove himself by getting into the big football game. His chance comes when the other team proves too tough, injuring so many of Tate College''s players that the coach runs out of substitutes. Hounded by Harold and warned by the referee that he will forfeit if he cannot come up with another player, the coach reluctantly lets Harold go in. The first few plays are disastrous. Finally, he breaks free and is on his way to winning the game, but, mindful of a referee''s prior instruction that he is to stop playing when he hears the whistle, he drops the football just outside the end zone when a non-football whistle sounds. The other team recovers the ball with only a minute left to play. His teammates are disheartened, but Harold rouses them to make a final effort. He chases down the opposing ball carrier, knocks the football loose, scoops it up and runs it all the way back for the winning touchdown as time runs out, which at last earns him the respect and popularity he was after. To top it off, Peggy passes him a note proclaiming her love for him.'
'comedy, western','A drifter identified only as "Friendless" (Keaton) sells the last of his possessions, keeping only a few trinkets and a picture of his mother. Unable to find a job in the city, he goes west and manages to get a job at a cattle ranch despite having no experience. Meanwhile, a neglected cow named Brown Eyes fails to give milk and is sent out to the field along with the other cattle. As Friendless tries to figure out how to milk a cow, he''s told to go out and help the other ranch hands bring in the cattle. Unsuccessful in riding a horse, he falls off and sees Brown Eyes. Noticing her limp, Friendless examines her hoof and removes the rock that had been hurting her. Brown Eyes proceeds to follow Friendless around, saving him from a bull attack. Realizing that he''s finally found a companion, Friendless strikes up a friendship with the cow, giving her his blanket at night and attempting to protect her from wild dogs. The next day, Brown Eyes follows Friendless everywhere, much to the chagrin of the other ranch hands. Friendless accidentally sets two steers loose after they''d been corralled in, but on the joking suggestion of the other hands, brings them back in by waving his red bandanna. The ranch owner (Truesdale) and his daughter (Myers) are preparing to sell the cattle to a stockyard, though another rancher wants to hold out for a higher price. The owner, no longer wanting to wait, prepares to ship the whole herd out. Friendless, shocked to hear that Brown Eyes will go to a slaughterhouse, refuses to let her go. The ranch owner fires him and gives him his wages. Friendless tries to buy his friend back with his earnings, but is told that it''s not enough. After failing to get more money from a card game, he joins Brown Eyes in the cattle car and tries to find a way to free her. The train is ambushed by the other rancher and his men. Friendless and the ranch owner''s other hands manage to drive off the attackers, but only Friendless makes it back to the train as the others chase away the rancher. Arriving in Los Angeles, Friendless frees Brown Eyes and leads her away, using his red bandanna once more to guide the other thousand steers to the stockyard. The townspeople are terrified of the cattle as some of the cows break away and begin entering the stores, but Friendless manages to corral them together. Friendless ties Brown Eyes up before going back to retrieve the other cattle, leaving his red bandanna with her in order to keep her cool. Realizing his mistake, he enters a masquerade store to find something red to attract the cows. Deciding on a red devil''s outfit, he exits the store and the cattle begin to chase him. The police attempt to arrest him, but are mistakenly sprayed with hoses from the fire department, who flee once they see the cattle coming. The ranch owner, realizing his ruin if the cattle are not sold, drives with his daughter to the stockyard. The owner tells him that no cattle have arrived yet. Defeated, the ranch owner prepares to leave when he sees Friendless leading the herd into the stockyard. Overjoyed, the ranch owner tells Friendless that his house and anything he owns is his to ask for. Friendless says that he only wants "her," gesturing behind him to where the ranch owner''s daughter is. The owner is surprised and the daughter flattered, but they quickly realize that it''s Brown Eyes that he''s referring to. The three drive back to the ranch, with Brown Eyes beside Friendless in the back seat.'
'comedy, adventure','The following is the plot of the 1942 re-release: Big Jim, a gold prospector during the Klondike Gold Rush, has just found an enormous gold deposit on his parcel of land when a blizzard strikes. The Lone Prospector gets lost in the same blizzard while also prospecting for gold. He stumbles into the cabin of Black Larsen, a wanted criminal. Larsen tries to throw him out when Jim also stumbles inside. Larsen tries to scare both out using his shotgun but is overpowered by Jim, and the three agree to an uneasy truce where they all can stay in the cabin. When the storm is taking so long that food is running out, the three draw lots for who will have to go out into the blizzard to obtain some more food. Larsen loses and leaves the cabin. While outside looking for food, he encounters Jim''s gold deposit and decides to ambush him there when Jim returns. Meanwhile, the two remaining in the cabin get so desperate that they cook and eat one of the Prospector''s shoes. Later, Jim gets delirious, imagines the Prospector as a giant chicken and attacks him. At that moment, a bear enters the cabin and is killed, supplying them with food. After the storm subsides, both leave the cabin, the Prospector continuing on to the next gold boom town while Jim returns to his gold deposit. There, he is knocked out by Larsen with a shovel. While fleeing with some of the mined gold, Larsen is swept to his death in an avalanche. Jim recovers consciousness and wanders into the snow, but he has lost his memory from the blow. When he returns to the town, his memory has been partly restored and he remembers that he had found a large gold deposit, that the deposit was close to a certain cabin and that he had stayed in the cabin with the Prospector. But he knows neither the location of the deposit nor of the cabin. So, he goes looking for the Prospector, hoping that he still knows the location of the cabin. The Prospector arrives at the town and encounters Georgia, a dance hall girl. To irritate Jack, a ladies'' man who is making aggressive advances toward her and pestering her for a dance, she instead decides to dance with "the most deplorable looking tramp in the dance hall", the Prospector, who instantly falls in love with her. After encountering each other again, she accepts his invitation for a New Year''s Eve dinner, but does not take it seriously and soon forgets about it. While waiting for her to arrive to the dinner, the Prospector imagines entertaining her with a dance of bread rolls on forks. When she does not arrive until midnight, he walks alone through the streets, desperate. At that moment, she remembers his invitation and decides to visit him. Finding his home empty but seeing the meticulously prepared dinner and a present for her, she has a change of heart and prepares a note for him in which she asks to talk to him. When the Prospector is handed the note, he goes searching for Georgia. But at the same moment, Jim finds him and drags him away to go search for the cabin, giving the Prospector only enough time to shout to Georgia that he soon will return to her as a millionaire. Jim and the Prospector find the cabin and stay for the night. Overnight, another blizzard blows the cabin half over a cliff right next to Jim''s gold deposit. The next morning the cabin rocks dangerously over the cliff edge while the two try to escape. At last Jim manages to get out and pull the Prospector to safety right when the cabin falls down the chasm. One year later both have become wealthy. But the Prospector was not able to find Georgia. They return to the contiguous United States on a ship on which, unknown to them, Georgia is also travelling. When the Prospector agrees to don his old clothes for a photograph, he falls down the stairs, encountering Georgia once more. After she mistakes him for a stowaway and tries to save him from the ship''s crew, the misunderstanding is cleared up and both are happily reunited.'
'comedy','Although he wins the championship by a knockout, prizefighter Lefty O''Brien is not a happy man because he broke his left hand on the jaw of his opponent, who ended up seriously hurt. Lefty has a girlfriend, Patsy, but her father is opposed to their getting married. When she is treated for an injury by Dr. Franklin, he also attempts to sweep her off her feet. Lefty and her dad need to come to her rescue when she''s trapped on a runaway train.'
'drama','The plot concerns Beaumont, a horse breeder with a penchant for gambling, who is down on his luck.[1] After losing at poker and being forced to give up several of his horses to cover his losses, Beaumont bets it all and loses again when his horse, Virginia''s Future, suddenly falls and breaks a leg while leading the pack in a critical race.[1][2] Beaumont''s selfish wife tells the horse''s trainer, Mike Donovan, to kill the injured horse, and abandons Beaumont for Greve Carter, a well-to-do neighbor. Beaumont also loses his relationship with Virginia,[1] his daughter from his previous marriage. Beaumont and Donovan manage to save Virginia''s Future, and she births a colt[1] (or a filly[2]) named Confederacy, but his financial troubles force him to sell off both the colt and the mare. Confederacy is mistreated by his new owner, a foreign junk dealer, and Virginia''s Future is forced into hard labor as a pack horse. But when Confederacy is later entered to run in the Futurity, ridden by Mike Donovan''s son Danny,[1][2] Beaumont gathers everything he can and bets it all again. This time he wins. He is reunited with his daughter and buys back the colt, giving it a good life in the pasture.[1][2]'
'romantic comedy','King Serge IV of Molvania (Menjou) comes to a small American town, and falls in love with one of its residents, Mary Young (Love).[3][4]'
'fantasy','In London during World War One, a simple-minded slavey awaits her Fairy Godmother and her Prince Charming.'
'drama','A young woman marries the wastrel son of a British aristocrat. Her husband, who has been disinherited by his father, loses what little money he has left gambling in casinos and then dies, leaving her penniless and with an infant son. When her former father-in-law tries to get custody of the child, she leaves him with a couple she trusts, but when she later goes to reclaim her son, she can''t find the people she left him with.'
'comedy','In London, Lady Margaret Windermere is busy discouraging Lord Darlington''s flirting, while her husband receives a letter from Edith Erlynne, "a complete stranger," asking to meet him on a urgent matter. A woman of great beauty but terrible reputation, she reveals that she is the mother of Lady Windermere, who believes she is dead and reveres her memory. Fearing that his wife would be crushed by the truth and seeing a pile of bills on Mrs. Erlynne''s desk, Lord Windermere gives her a cheque for ₤1500 for her silence. Mrs. Erlynne resumes her scandalous lifestyle. At a horse race, she attracts the attention of many, including members of the Windermere party, notably Lord Augustus Lorton, "London''s most distinguished bachelor," and three snoopy, gossipy women. As Lord Windermere defends Mrs. Erlynne to the latter, his wife becomes a bit concerned. Mrs. Erlynne leaves. Lorton follows and is soon calling on her regularly. For Lady Windermere''s birthday, her husband gives her jewelry and a lovely fan. When he leaves the mansion, she and Darlington by chance see him dismiss his chauffeur and take a taxi instead. Darlington then tells her that Mrs. Erlynne''s name may be found in her husband''s cheque book and declares his love for her. Meanwhile, Mrs. Erlynne blackmails Lord Windermere into an invitation to a ball that night, explaining that such "social recognition" might help elicit a marriage proposal from Lord Lorton. When he returns home, his wife confronts him with his copy of the ₤1500 cheque, which she found after breaking into his locked desk drawer. He tells her he only helped a deserving woman in need, but she becomes further infuriated when he informs her that Mrs. Erlynne will be coming to their ball that night. Faced with his wife''s strong opposition, he sends a note to Mrs. Erlynne, asking her not to come. She does not open it, assuming it is her invitation, and goes to the ball. She is not on the guest list, but then Lord Lorton arrives, and she uses him to gain entry. She induces a reluctant Lord Windermere to formally introduce her to his wife. This awkward moment does not go unnoticed, and gossip quickly spreads. However, Mrs. Erlynne adroitly flatters the chief gossiper, and soon she is accepted by the other women guests. Unaware of this, Lady Windermere flees to the garden. She then thinks that she sees Mrs. Erlynne flirting with her husband. In fact, she is talking to Lorton, who asks Mrs. Erlynne to marry him. Mrs. Erlynne spots Lady Windermere and tries to clear up any confusion, but Lady Windermere will not listen. Instead, she flees to Darlington''s house, though the man is still at her party. Mrs. Erlynne finds her farewell note to her husband and takes it away. At Darlington''s house, she tries to persuade Lady Windermere to go home, telling her that she ruined her life in exactly the same manner. Then Darlington arrives, accompanied by Lord Windermere and some other men, the ball having ended. The two women hide in another room, but Lady Windermere forgets her fan on a sofa. Lord Windermere demands that Lord Darlington explain what his wife''s fan is doing there. Mrs. Erlynne comes out and apologizes for having taken it by mistake. All the guests, notably Lord Lorton, leave. Meanwhile Lady Windermere leaves the house unseen. The following day at breakfast, Mrs. Erlynne comes to return the fan and take leave of the Windermeres, as she is going back to France. Lady Windermere wants to tell her husband what really happened the day before, but Mrs. Erlynne dissuades her. On her way out, Mrs. Erlynne encounters Lord Lorton and tells him that she was shocked by his behavior the previous evening and that she no longer wants to marry him. He is flabbergasted, but after thinking it over, follows her into her taxi.'
'drama','Annie Rooney is a young girl who spends her days wreaking havoc in the tenements with a gang of children and their rival gang, the Kid Kellys. They fight in the streets, accidentally scaring a fruit vendor''s horse in the process. Annie''s father is a respected neighborhood police officer, but her brother, Tim, is a member of the Big Kellys, a gang of older boys led by Joe Kelly. The gang raises money for themselves by selling tickets to an upcoming dance. Joe is kind to Annie and she develops a crush on him. But when Joe visits the Rooney home later that day, Officer Rooney warns him that if he continues to lead his gang, he will no longer allow Tim to spend time with Joe. The fruit vendor arrives and informs Officer Rooney that Annie''s activities that morning cost him five dollars'' worth of fresh fruit. When each of the children claim responsibility for scaring the horse, Officer Rooney decides that they will all have to repay the fruit vendor together. The children decide to raise funds by staging a play set in the Wild West. Prompted by teasing from a heckler, Annie attempts to ride the same horse that the children had scared earlier, but it is spooked once again and gallops through the city with Annie on its back. Joe spots Annie and manages to catch her when she falls. When the fruit vendor catches up with them, Joe pays him back with five dollars'' worth of tickets to the dance. The night of the dance is also Officer Rooney''s birthday; he is on patrol outside the dance hall. Back at home, Tim and Annie are preparing for their father''s return. At the dance, a fight breaks out between Joe and two of his fellow gang members, Tony and Spider. The lights in the dance hall are switched off, attracting the attention of Officer Rooney, who ventures inside. Tony fires a gun, but the bullet meant for Joe hits Officer Rooney instead, killing him. A week passes. The police still haven''t discovered Officer Rooney''s killer. Tony and Spider lie to Tim, telling him that Joe killed Officer Rooney. Tim intends to take revenge himself. Meanwhile, Annie is told that Tony was seen discarding a gun in an alley. Members of the Kid Kellys begin to suspect Tony as well. The rival gangs unite and manage to bring Tony to the police station, but Tim arrives shortly after them and announces that he has just shot Joe. Annie rushes to the hospital and learns that Joe will die unless he is given an immediate blood transfusion. Annie volunteers, though she mistakenly believes that she will die as a result. She is tested and donates her blood. After the procedure, Annie learns that she is not going to die, and she states her intention to marry Joe one day. Later, Joe drives Annie and her friends through town. Tim, now a traffic officer, waves them through the intersection.'
'fantasy, adventure','From a lost expedition to a plateau in Venezuela, Paula White brings the journal of her father explorer Maple White to the eccentric Professor Challenger in London. The journal features sketches of dinosaurs which is enough proof for Challenger to publicly announce that dinosaurs still walk the earth. Met with ridicule at an academic meeting at the Zoological Hall, Challenger reluctantly accepts a newspaper''s offer to finance a mission to rescue Maple White. Professor Challenger, Paula White, sportsman Sir John Roxton, news reporter Edward Malone (who is a friend of Roxton and wishes to go on the expedition to impress his fiancée), a skeptical professor Summerlee, an Indian servant Zambo, and Challenger''s butler Austin leave for the plateau. At their campsite at the base of the plateau, the explorers are shocked when a large rock falls, sent their way by an Apeman perched on top of an overhead ledge. As the crew look up to see their attacker, Challenger spies overhead a Pteranodon (mistakenly calling it a Pterodactylus) killing and eating a young Toxodon which proves that the statements in Maple White''s diary are true. Leaving Zambo and Austin at the camp, they cross a chasm onto the plateau by cutting down a tree and using it as a bridge, but it is knocked over by a Brontosaurus, leaving them trapped. The explorers witness various life-and-death struggles between the prehistoric beasts of the plateau. An Allosaurus attacks an Edmontosaurus, and knocks it into a bog. The Allosaurus then attacks, and is driven off by a Triceratops. Eventually, the Allosaurus makes its way to the campsite and attacks the exploration party. It is finally driven off by Ed who tosses a torch into its mouth. Convinced that the camp is not safe, Ed climbs a tree to look for a new location, but is attacked by the apeman. Roxton succeeds in shooting the apeman, but the creature is merely wounded and escapes before he can finish him off. Meanwhile, an Agathaumas is attacked by the Allosaurus, and gores it to death. Suddenly, a Tyrannosaurus attacks and kills the Agathaumas, along with an unfortunate Pteranodon. The explorers then make preparations to live on the plateau potentially indefinitely. A catapult is constructed and during a search for Maple White, Roxton finds his remains, confirming his death. It is at this time that Ed confesses his love for Paula and the two are unofficially wed by Summerlee who used to be a minister. Shortly afterwards, as the paleontologists are observing the Brontosaurus, an Allosaurus attacks it and the Brontosaurus falls off the edge of the plateau, becoming trapped in a mud bank at the base of the plateau. Soon afterwards, a volcano erupts causing a mass stampede among the giant creatures of the lost world. The crew is saved when Paula''s pet monkey Jocko climbs up the plateau carrying a rope. The crew use the rope to pull up a rope ladder constructed by Zambo and Austin and then climb down. As Ed makes his descent, he is again attacked by the apeman who pulls the rope ladder. The apeman is again shot and finally killed by Roxton. They discover the Brontosaurus that had been pushed off the plateau had landed softly in the mud of the river, trapped but still alive, and Challenger manages to bring it back to London, as he wants to put it on display as proof of his story. However, while being unloaded from the ship it escapes and causes havoc until it reaches Tower Bridge, where its massive weight causes a collapse, and it swims down the River Thames. Challenger is morose as the creature leaves. Ed discovers that the love he left in London has married in his absence, allowing him and Paula to be together. Roxton morosely but gallantly hides his love for Paula as Paula and Ed leave together, while two passersby note: "That''s Sir John Roxton—sportsman."'
'comedy drama','Randy Farman, who demonstrates camping outfits in a department store, wins a racing car in a raffle and sets out for the West. He runs out of gas, loses all his money, and falls in love with a girl called Doris, who, accompanied by her aunt, is on her way to Nampa City to claim an inheritance. Arriving at their destination, Doris and her aunt discover that the uncle, who sent for them, is locked up in an asylum, having invented the entire story of the bequest. Randy enters an exhibition fight with the champion boxer and stays long enough to win the entrance fee for an automobile race at the county fair. The sheriff has attached Randy''s car for nonpayment of a hotel bill, and Randy must drive the entire race with the sheriff in the seat beside him. Randy wins the race, a substantial prize, and Doris'' love.'
'western','Following the death of the owner of the Hunt ranch, foreman Tom Foster (Tom Mix) assumes responsibility for the property, taking also into his care Eleanor Hunt (Billie Dove), the beautiful daughter of the late owner. Although he falls in love with the girl, Tom is too diffident to express his feelings and propose marriage. Soon after, Eleanor is asked to accompany her aunt to Europe. Two years later, Eleanor returns from Europe with condescending airs, accompanied by Denman (Malcolm Waite), her wealthy European fiancée. Eleanor announces that she plans to hold the wedding at the ranch, which has been renovated by Tom and transformed into a successful tourist destination. Tom''s friend, Mack (J. Farrell MacDonald), tells Tom about the rakish exploits of Don Juan, hoping to instill in him a bit of romance. Wanting to eliminate any competition, Denman instructs his men to kidnap Tom and keep him prisoner until after the wedding. Tom is knocked on the head and dreams that he is the fabled Juan, fighting like a lion for love. When he wakes up, Tom frees himself from his bonds and rides back to the ranch, where he arrives just in time to prevent the wedding. Afterwards, Tom and Eleanor are married.'
'drama','Cathleen Gillis (May McAvoy) falls in love with Jack Herrington (Jack Mulhall). Martin Gillis (George Fawcett), Cathleen''s loving father, is stern, very religious, and runs an ice cream shop. Cathleen is an obedient daughter and conservative in her views as well. Jack however, has a routine that includes wild parties hosted by his parents, Gladys and John (Myrtle Stedman and Alec B. Francis), who think it is better to be their son''s friend by their providing bootleg whiskey and a place to have all-night parties. Jack''s lifestyle places him at odds with Cathleen''s, but he promises her his will change his ways. He backslides several times, but in the end is reformed by Cathleen''s love, and they elope. After the elopement, Gladys and John get a stern lecture on temperance and sobriety from Martin and reform their ways as well.'
'drama','Young doctor, Jim Stanton (John Beal) has two passionate interests in conflict with each other. He is first a conscientious surgeon, but in his spare time, pursues his love of flying, a dangerous hobby that his well-intentioned father abhors. His father is a well-regarded doctor who does his best to curtail his son''s flying. When Jim flies a married woman on a flight that ends in disaster with his passenger killed, the resulting scandal prompts the hospital to put Jim on probation. Believing that he is innocent and wronged, Jim becomes a hobo and is arrested for vagrancy and put to work on a road crew in Los Angeles. When he runs into an old pal, Dick Miller (Philip Huston), he is persuaded to take a job as a mechanic for Roberts Aviation. On an emergency flight that turns out to be less than routine, nurse Doris King (Joan Fontaine) becomes suspicious of the new employee who not only can handle the controls of an aircraft, but also knows what to do in a medical emergency. Doris finds out the truth about Jim from an inquisitive newspaper reporter, "Nosey" Watson (Jimmy Conlin). Although trying to maintain his anonymity, Jim accepts a position as a pilot and finally at the scene of a train crash, his secret life is fully revealed on board the special "aerial ambulance" aircraft, when Doris and Jim are able to assist Jim''s father in saving the lives of crash victims.'
'thriller','Zara (Aileen Pringle) is a gypsy rogue who joins with Confederate Zazarack (Mitchell Lewis) to aid Michael Nash (Conway Tearle), the crooked guardian of heiress Doris Merrick (Gladys Hulette), to gain control of her estate by way of fake seances.'
'drama','Tim Kelly (Jackie Coogan) and Max Ginsberg (Max Davidson) have struck it rich by investing in copper stock. But when the stock takes a dive, they are compelled to go back into their former profession — junk dealers. They take in the destitute Mary Riley (Joan Crawford) as a boarder and she hits it off so well with them that she winds up becoming a partner in their rag & junk company. Mary falls in love with a man named Nathan Burke (Allan Forrest), the son of wealthy parents. Nathan''s mother (Lillian Elliott), however, disapproves of Mary. Eventually it is revealed that Mrs. Burke came from a poor background herself, and her long-ago sweetheart was Max. After this discovery, she gives the couple her blessings. The copper stock soars in value once again, so Kelly and Ginsberg are back in the money.[1]'
'horror','The film opens with the debut of the new season at the Paris Opera House, with a production of Gounod''s Faust. Comte Philippe de Chagny (John St. Polis) and his brother, the Vicomte Raoul de Chagny (Norman Kerry) are in attendance. Raoul attends only in the hope of hearing his sweetheart Christine Daaé (Mary Philbin) sing. Christine has made a sudden rise from the chorus to understudy of Mme. Carlotta, the prima donna. Raoul visits her in her dressing room during the performance, and makes his intentions known that he wishes for Christine to resign and marry him. Christine refuses to let their relationship get in the way of her career. At the height of the most prosperous season in the Opera''s history, the management suddenly resign. As they leave, they tell the new managers of the Opera Ghost, a phantom who asks for opera box #5, among other things. The new managers laugh it off as a joke, but the old management leaves troubled. After the performance, the ballerinas are disturbed by the sight of a mysterious man in a fez (Arthur Edmund Carewe), who dwells in the cellars. Arguing whether or not he is the Phantom, they decide to ask Joseph Buquet, a stagehand who has actually seen the ghost''s face. Buquet describes a ghastly sight of a living skeleton to the girls, who are then startled by a shadow cast on the wall. The antics of stagehand Florine Papillon (Snitz Edwards) do not amuse Joseph''s brother, Simon (Gibson Gowland), who chases him off. Meanwhile, Mme. Carlotta (Virginia Pearson), the prima donna of the Paris Grand Opera, barges into the managers'' office enraged. She has received a letter from "The Phantom," demanding that Christine sing the role of Marguerite the following night, threatening dire consequences if his demands are not met. Christine is in her dressing room at that moment, speaking to a phantom voice (which the audience sees as a shadow on a wall behind the dressing room.) The voice warns her that she will take Carlotta''s place on Wednesday and that she is to think only of her career and her master. The following day, in a garden near the Opera House, Raoul meets Christine and asks her to reconsider his offer. Christine admits that she has been tutored by a divine voice, the "Spirit of Music," and that it is now impossible to stop her career. Raoul tells her that he thinks someone is playing a joke on her, and she storms off in anger. Wednesday evening, Carlotta is ill and Christine takes her place in the opera. During the performance, the managers go to Box 5 to see exactly who has taken it. The keeper of the box does not know who it is, as she has never seen his face. The two managers enter the box and are startled to see a shadowy figure seated there. They run out of the box and compose themselves, but when they enter the box again, the person is gone. In her next performance, Christine reaches her triumph during the finale and receives a standing ovation from the audience. When Raoul visits her in her dressing room, she pretends not to recognize him, because unbeknownst to those in the room, the phantom voice is present. Meanwhile, Simon Buquet finds the body of his brother, Joseph, hanging by the strangler''s noose and vows vengeance. Raoul spends the evening outside her door, and after the others have left, just as he is about to enter, he hears the voice within the room. He overhears the voice make his intentions to Christine: "Soon, Christine, this spirit will take form and will demand your love!" When Christine leaves her room alone, Raoul breaks in to find it empty. Carlotta receives another discordant note from the Phantom. Once again, it demands that she take ill and let Christine have her part. The managers also get a note, reiterating that if Christine does not sing, they will present "Faust" in a house with a curse on it. The following evening, despite the Phantom''s warnings, a defiant Carlotta appears as Marguerite. At first, the performance goes well, but soon the Phantom''s curse takes its effect, backstage, causing the great crystal chandelier to fall down onto the audience. Christine runs to her dressing room and is entranced by a mysterious voice through a secret door behind the mirror, descending, in a dream-like sequence, semi-conscious on horseback by a winding staircase into the lower depths of the Opera. She is then taken by gondola over a subterranean lake by the masked Phantom into his lair. The Phantom introduces himself as Erik and declares his love; Christine faints, so Erik carries her to a suite fabricated for her comfort. The next day, when she awakens, she finds a note from Erik telling her that she is free to come and go as she pleases, but that she must never look behind his mask. In the next room, the Phantom is playing his composition, "Don Juan Triumphant." Christine''s curiosity gets the better of her, and she sneaks up behind the Phantom and tears off his mask, revealing his hideously deformed face. Enraged, the Phantom makes his plans to hold her prisoner known. In an attempt to plead to him, he excuses her to visit her world one last time, with the condition that she never sees her lover again. Released from the underground dungeon, Christine makes a rendezvous at the annual masked-ball, which is graced with the Phantom in the guise of the ''Red-Death'' from the Edgar Allan Poe short story of the same name. Raoul finds Christine and they flee to the roof of the Opera House, where she tells him everything that followed the chandelier crash. However, an unseen jealous Phantom perching on the statue of Apollo overhears them. Raoul plans to whisk Christine safely away to London following the next performance. As they leave the roof, the mysterious man with the fez approaches them. Aware that the Phantom is waiting downstairs, he leads Christine and Raoul to another exit. The following evening, Raoul meets Christine in her dressing room. She has heard the voice of the Phantom, who has revealed that he knows their plans. Raoul has arranged for a carriage and reassures her nothing will go wrong. During the performance, the Phantom kidnaps Christine off the stage during a blackout. Raoul rushes to Christine''s dressing room, and meets the man in the fez, who reveals himself to be Inspector Ledoux, a secret policeman who has been studying Erik''s moves as the Phantom since he escaped as a prisoner from Devil''s Island. Ledoux reveals the secret door in Christine''s room and the two men enter the catacombs of the Opera House in an attempt to rescue Christine. Instead, they fall into the Phantom''s dungeon, a torture room of his design. Philippe has also found his way into the catacombs looking for his brother, and a clanging alarm alerts the Phantom to his presence in a canoe on the lake. Phillipe is drowned by Erik, who returns to find the two men in the torture chamber. Turning a switch, the Phantom subjects the two prisoners to intense heat; the two manage to escape the chamber by opening a door in the floor as they are about to perish. In the chamber below, the Phantom shuts a gate, locking them in with barrels full of gunpowder. The Phantom gives Christine a choice of two levers: one shaped like a scorpion and the other like a grasshopper. One of them will save Raoul''s life, but at the cost of Christine marrying Erik, while the other will blow up the barrels in the chamber Raoul and Ledoux are trapped in, in effect destroying the Opera House and killing them all. Christine picks the scorpion, but it is a trick by the Phantom to "save" Raoul and Ledoux from being killed by drowning them. Christine begs the Phantom to save Raoul, promising him anything in return, even becoming his wife. At the last second, the Phantom opens a trapdoor in his floor through which Raoul and Ledoux are saved. A mob, led by Simon, infiltrates the Phantom''s lair. As the clanging alarm sounds and the mob approaches, the Phantom attempts to flee with Christine in the carriage meant for Raoul and Christine. While Raoul saves Christine, the Phantom is pursued and killed by a mob, who throw him into the River Seine to finally drown. In a brief epilogue, Raoul and Christine are shown on their honeymoon in Viroflay.'
'dramatic comedy','Hugh Carver (Donald Keith) is an athletic star and a freshman at Prescott College. During a hazing initiation by his fraternity brothers, he meets Cynthia Day (Clara Bow), a popular girl who loves to party and have a good time. She introduces him to the pleasures of illicit drinking, dancing at illegal roadhouses, and getting nasty in the back seats of cars. A love-triangle develops between Day, Carver, and Carver''s roommate, Carl Peters (Gilbert Roland), who also likes Day. Eventually, Peters gives up his crush on Day and reconciles his friendship with Carver. Carver''s grades, athletic performance and moral character begin to suffer as a result of his late nights and wild partying, and on a visit home, his strict father tosses him out of the house and tells him not to come back until he''s ''made good''. After almost being arrested at a roadhouse raid, Day and Carver escape in her automobile, and Day realizes that her lifestyle is bad for Carver, so the two stop seeing each other. Carver''s school performance then improves greatly, and he leads his teammates to victory at the big football game at the end of the year. Peters tells Carver that Day still loves him, and that she has changed, becoming less wild and more mature. Day and Carver are reunited at the end.'
'comedy drama','Maggie (ZaSu Pitts) is a popular Ziegfeld Follies dancing comedian whose husband leaves her for one of the show''s beauties, and who longs for the life of other chorus girls but eventually finds love by being herself.'
'comedy drama','A San Francisco earthquake orphan is adopted by relatives in Spain. grows up and gets wooed by a Romeo there. She turns him down and falls in love with a San Francisco plumber.'
'drama','Tim Kelly (Jackie Coogan) is a kid who runs away from an orphanage fire and takes refuge with Max, a junk man (Max Davidson).'
'romance','The film takes a behind-the-scenes look at the romantic lives of three chorus girls and the way their preferences in men affect their lives.[1] Sally is brassy, self-assured chorine in search of a sugar daddy. Irene is a romantic girl easily seduced by con men. Whereas Mary is the true heroine of the story, leaving the sordidness behind to settle down [2]'
'comedy','Because she married a circus performer, Judge Foster (Erville Alderson) casts out his only daughter. Just before her death a few years later, she leaves her little girl Sally (Carol Dempster) in the care of her friend McGargle (W.C. Fields), a good-natured crook, juggler and fakir. Sally grows up in this atmosphere and is unaware of her parentage. McGargle, realizing his responsibility to the child, gets a job with a carnival company playing at Great Meadows, where the Fosters live. A real estate boom has made them wealthy. Sally is a hit with her dancing. Peyton (Alfred Lunt), the son of Judge Foster''s friend, falls in love with Sally. To save him, the Judge arranges to have McGargle and Sally arrested. McGargle escapes, but Sally is hunted down and brought back. McGargle, hearing of Sally''s plight, steals a Flivver, and after many delays, reaches the courtroom and presents proof of Sally''s parentage. The Judge dismisses the case and his wife takes Sally in her arms, but Peyton''s claim is stronger and she agrees to become his wife. McGargle is persuaded to remain and is found an outlet for his peculiar talents in selling real estate.'
'drama','The film opens with a foreword: The story begins along a bleak waterfront in an unidentified harbor. Industrial refuse litters the shore. A giant Sisypheandredge scoops mud from a channel and into a massive barge. Four characters, “humans who crawl close to the earth” occupy the brooding landscape: The Boy, a fainthearted and feckless youth, wanders aimlessly amid the wreckage. He fancies The Girl. The Girl, older and hardened by her impoverishment, has “sunk as low as her socks.” Maintaining a sullen dignity in her solitude, she spurns The Boys diffident advances. The Child is an orphaned youngster. He silently haunts the mud barge where his parents lost their lives. The Brute is a man of indeterminate age and short-tempered. He acts as watchman aboard the barge. The Brute makes a pass at The Girl. She cuts him cold with a glare and he retreats. Frustrated, The Brute assaults The Child who has trespassed on the barge. The Boy witnesses the assault, but is frozen by his cowardice. The Girl, with a single word, shames him into action. He gingerly collects The Child, and they flee together with The Brute in pursuit. The Girl, with a look, signals the dredge operator, who unleashes a torrent of mud on the head of The Brute. The Boy, The Girl and The Child escape from the desolate docks to the slums of an unnamed metropolis. As the threesome trudge through the back alleys of the city, they are spotted by The Man and his client, The Gentleman. The Man accosts The Boy and confirms what he suspects: they are homeless and penniless. He assures The Boy that jobs are plentiful, and offers to provide a room for the trio while The Boy seeks employment. Unbeknownst to them, the “room” is located in a brothel. The Man’s aim is to enlist The Girl as a prostitute. When they are ushered into the seedy flat, The Woman, a sex worker, attempts to provide them with some refreshment. The Man stops her: “Hunger will whisper things in their ears that I might find troublesome to say.” As the hours pass, The Girl becomes increasingly anxious due to The Child’s pleas for food. The Boy returns from his futile search for work demoralized. They are on the verge of despair. The Boy indulges in a vivid fantasy, in which he, The Girl and The Child are transformed into wealthy aristocrats, who arrive at their estate escorted by servants dressed in faux-military livery. The Gentlemen, with the encouragement of the Man, enters the room expecting to negotiate sex with a prostitute. The Girl coldly considers the proposition. The Boy becomes distraught when he discerns The Girl’s ambivalence. The Gentleman, grasping her dilemma, bestows a gift of money on the Girl without comment and quietly takes his leave. The Child snatches the largesse and bolts to the door, returning shortly with provisions for a meal – the crisis past. The Man, thwarted in his endeavor, devises another plan in collusion with The Woman. They invite the young trio to an outing in the countryside. There, he intends to seduce The Girl and coerce her into the sex trade: “…let romance do a little work.”. The Woman is tasked with distracting The Boy during the seduction. The party of five arrives in the country in a touring car. They park next to a real estate sign that reads “Here Your Dreams Come True.” Despite The Man’s best efforts, The Girl remains unresponsive to his blandishments. Exasperated, he lashes out at The Child. The Boy, shedding his fear, leaps to the defense of the little boy and beats The Man into submission with his fists. The Girl rejoices that The Boy has claimed his manhood. Triumphantly, the trio – now a family –strides into the sunset, “children of the sun.”'
'comedy','Jimmy Shannon (Buster Keaton) is the junior partner in the brokerage firm of Meekin and Shannon, which is on the brink of financial ruin. A lawyer (whom they dodged, mistakenly believing he was trying to add to their woes) finally manages to inform Jimmy of the terms of his grandfather''s will. He will inherit seven million dollars if he is married by 7:00 p.m. on his 27th birthday, which happens to be that same day. Shannon immediately seeks out his sweetheart, Mary Jones, who readily accepts his proposal. However, when he clumsily explains why they have to get married that day, she breaks up with him. He returns to the country club to break the news to his partner and the lawyer. Though Jimmy''s heart is set on Mary, Meekin persuades him to try proposing to other women to save them both from ruin or even possibly jail. He has Jimmy look in the club''s dining room; Jimmy knows seven women there (the chances of the title). Each turns him down. In desperation, Jimmy asks any woman he comes across. Even the hat check girl rejects him. He finally finds one who agrees, but it turns out she is underage when her mother spots her and takes her away. Meanwhile, Mary''s mother persuades her to reconsider. She writes a note agreeing to marry Jimmy and sends the hired hand to deliver it. Unaware of this, Meekin has his partner''s predicament (and potential inheritance) printed in the newspaper, asking would-be brides to go to the Broad Street Church at 5 p.m. Hordes of veiled women descend on the place. When they spot Jimmy (who had fallen asleep on a pew), they begin to fight over him. Then the clergyman appears and announces he believes it all to be a practical joke. Infuriated, the women chase after Jimmy. While hiding, he gets Mary''s note. He races to Mary''s house, pursued by furious females. Along the way, he accidentally starts an avalanche, which drives away the mob. When he gets to Mary''s home, Meekin shows him his watch; he is minutes too late. Mary still wants to marry him, money or no, but he refuses to let her share his impending disgrace. Fortunately, when he leaves, he sees by the church clock that Meekin''s watch is fast. He and Mary wed just in time.'
'crime comedy','Burglars Molly Brian (Marie Prevost) and Joe Hagney (John Patrick) break into the Vickers mansion on Long Island and loot the safe but are caught in the act by another crook, Jerry Winters (Clive Brook), who takes the money from them. The three are confronted by Pious Joe McDowell (Claude Gillingwater) and his wife Mamie (Mathilde Brundage), also crooks, but who assert themselves as friends of the Vickers family. Moly, Joe, and Jerry introduce themselves in turn as Vickers'' household servants. A doctor (Dan Mason) arrives with his patient (Heinie Conklin) and quarantines the house. Unknown to the first five, the Doctor and patient are also crooks who use the ruse of a "quarantine" as part of their own methodology. During the brief quarantine, Molly ends up falling in love with Jerry and the two pledge to go straight. When the police (Fred Kelsey) finally arrive, Pious Joe takes responsibility for the robbery so that Molly and Jerry can escape.'
'drama','At 40, businesswoman Jane Vale (Pauline Frederick) falls in love with a much younger Robert Elliott (Malcolm McGregor), an employee from her factory. She promotes him to the position of her private secretary, and out of gratitude and to defend her reputation from rumors, he asks her to marry him. However, before the marriage can take place, Jane''s younger sister Dorothy (Laura La Plante) returns home from college and Robert and Dorothy fall in love. Lacking the courage to confess to Jane of his love for her sister, Robert marries Jane. Robert finds that the difference in ages between him and Jane are creating complications. When Jane realizes that Robert, though diligently attentive as a husband, is actually in love with her sister, she pretends that she has fallen out of love with him and seeks a divorce.'
'comedy','Jennie Hagan (Swanson) is a waitress who dreams of becoming a star. When a real theatrical diva (Astor) arrives in town, Jennie schemes to get a part on the stage.'
'romantic comedy/drama','Ann Barton (Laura La Plante), a girl from a once-wealthy family, must make a living by clerking in a cigar store. There she meets and falls in love with James McDonald (Pat O''Malley), a cigar salesman. She is then adopted by Margaret Wyndham (Hedda Hopper), her rich and aristocratic aunt, who disapproves of James due to his crude manners. Wishing to break up the two, Aunt Margaret sends Ann away to finishing school. In response, Ann acts out publicly and embarrasses her aunt. In the meantime, James learns how to be a proper gentleman and wins her back through having learned good manners and a more dignified bearing.'
'drama','Singer Nora (Mae Busch) left her husband for new flame Larry (Lew Cody); her husband''s suicide cools the affair, and the pair meets again when, years later, Larry meets and falls in love with Nora''s daughter.'
'comedy','Richard Gaylor Jr. (Richard Dix) is a modern Lothario who has so many sweethearts that his father does not know what to do with him. Tired of paying to get his son out of one romantic entanglement after another, Richard Gaylor Sr. (Frank Currier) sends his son to the Basque region of France, believing that the women there will only accept attentions from their own people. Almost immediately, a local girl, Yvonne Hurja (Frances Howard) becomes infatuated with Richard, who she sees as being able to help her break free from the unwanted attention of local guardsman Julio (William Powell). A rivalry grows between Richard and Julio.'
'drama','Jan (Lon Chaney) is a Swedish farmer and Glory (Norma Shearer) is his beloved daughter, who saves him from bankruptcy by eloping to the big city with their rapacious landlord, driving Jan to madness.'
'western','Tex Hartwell (Buck Jones) rescues an old cobbler from the physical assault of corrupt banker Jim Mackey (Carl Stockdale). When Mackey orders his hired guns to kill Tex, the stranger outdraws them. Rancher Dee Winch (Jack McDonald) is impressed with Tex''s fast draw and hires him as a trail rider, tasked with keeping diseased cattle off of his land.[2] Sometime later, Mackey''s men stampede a herd of infected cattle onto Winch''s land. When Winch learns of the infected cattle, he fires Tex, who leaves in disgrace. Meanwhile, Tex learns from Fanny Goodnight (Lucy Fox) that Mackey was behind the stampede of infected cattle. Tex confronts the corrupt banker and forces him to sign a confession admitting to his guilt. Later, the old cobbler kills Mackey, Tex''s reputation is restored with the cattlemen, and he and Fanny ride trail together on their own.[2]'
'western','Set in Caldwell, Kansas on the Kansas-Oklahoma border, the movie features cowboy Don Carver (Hart) as a "tumbleweed" (i.e., a drifter) who decides to settle down after falling in love with Molly Lassiter (Barbara Bedford). Carver decides to get in on the Cherokee Strip land rush but when he''s arrested and parted from his new love, he''s in danger of missing the big race. Lucien Littlefield plays a strong supporting role in the movie as Hart''s comic sidekick and best friend.[1]'
'crime','Three performers leave a sideshow after Tweedledee (Harry Earles), the midget, assaults a young heckler and sparks a melee. The three join together in an "unholy" plan to become wealthy. Prof. Echo, the ventriloquist, assumes the role of Mrs. O''Grady, a kindly old grandmother, who runs a pet shop, while Tweedledee plays her grandchild. Hercules (Victor McLaglen), the strongman, works in the shop along with the unsuspecting Hector McDonald (Matt Moore). Echo''s girlfriend, pickpocket Rosie O''Grady (Mae Busch), pretends to be his granddaughter. Using what they learn from delivering pets, the trio later commit burglaries, with their wealthy buyers as victims. On Christmas Eve, John Arlington (an uncredited Charles Wellesley) telephones to complain that the "talking" parrot (aided by Echo''s ventriloquism) he bought will not speak. When "Granny" O''Grady visits him to coax the bird into performing, "she" takes along grandson "Little Willie". While there, they learn that a valuable ruby necklace is in the house. They decide to steal it that night. As Echo is too busy, the other two grow impatient and decide to go ahead without him. The next day, Echo is furious to read in the newspaper that Arlington was killed and his three-year-old daughter badly injured in the robbery. Hercules shows no remorse whatsoever, relating how Arlington pleaded for his life. When a police investigator shows up at the shop, the trio become fearful and decide to frame Hector, hiding the jewelry in his room. Meanwhile, Hector proposes to Rosie. She turns him down, but he overhears her crying after he leaves. To his joy, she confesses she loves him, but was ashamed of her shady past. When the police take him away, Rosie tells the trio that she will exonerate him, forcing them to abduct her and flee to a mountain cabin. Echo takes along his large pet ape (who terrifies Hercules). In the spring, Hector is brought to trial. Rosie pleads with Echo to save Hector, promising to stay with him if he does. After Echo leaves for the city, Tweedledee overhears Hercules asking Rosie to run away with him (and the loot). The midget releases the ape. Hercules kills the midget before the ape gets him. At the trial, Echo agonizes over what to do, but finally rushes forward and confesses all. Both he and Hector are set free. When Rosie goes to Echo to keep her promise, he lies and says he was only kidding. He tells her to go to Hector. Echo returns to the sideshow, giving his spiel to the customers: "That''s all there is to life, friends, ... a little laughter ... a little tear."'
'fantasy','A toymaker (Semon) reads L. Frank Baum''s book to his granddaughter. The Land of Oz is ruled by Prime Minister Kruel (Josef Swickard), aided by Ambassador Wikked (Otto Lederer), Lady Vishuss (Virginia Pearson), and the Wizard (Charles Murray), a "medicine-show hokum hustler". When the discontented people, led by Prince Kynd (Bryant Washburn), demand the return of the princess, who disappeared while a baby many years before, so she can be crowned their rightful ruler, Kruel has the Wizard distract them with a parlor trick: making a female impersonator (Frederick Ko Vert) appear out of a seemingly empty basket. Kruel sends Wikked on a mission. Meanwhile, in Kansas, Dorothy (Dorothy Dwan) lives on a farm with her relatives. While Aunt Em (Mary Carr) is a kind and caring woman, Uncle Henry (Frank Alexander) is an obese man with a short temper who shows little love for his niece. He also abuses his farmhands: Snowball (credited to G. Howe Black, a stage name for Spencer Bell, who frequently appeared in Semon''s films) and Hardy''s and Semon''s unnamed characters. The latter two are both in love with Dorothy, who favors Hardy''s character. Aunt Em reveals to Dorothy that she was placed on their doorstep as a baby, along with an envelope and instructions that it be opened only when she turned 18. On her 18th birthday, however, Wikked and his minions arrive at the farm by biplane and demand the envelope. When Uncle Henry refuses to hand it over, Wikked suborns Hardy''s character by promising him wealth and Dorothy. Wikked then has Dorothy tied to a rope and raised high up a tower; his men start a fire underneath the rope. Hardy''s character finds the note, but Semon''s character takes it and saves Dorothy, only to have Wikked and his men capture them all at gunpoint. Then a tornado suddenly strikes. Dorothy, the two rivals for her affections and Uncle Henry take shelter in a shed. It (and Snowball) are carried aloft and land in Oz. Dorothy finally reads the contents of the envelope; it declares that she, Princess Dorothea, is the rightful ruler of Oz. Thwarted, Kruel blames the farmhands for kidnapping her and orders the Wizard to transform them into something else, such as monkeys, which he is of course unable to do. Chased by Kruel''s soldiers, Semon''s character disguises himself as a scarecrow, while Hardy''s improvises a costume from the pile of tin in which he is hiding. They are still eventually taken captive. During their trial, the Tin Man accuses his fellow farmhands of kidnapping Dorothy. Kynd has the Scarecrow and Snowball put in the dungeon. Kruel makes the Tin Man "Knight of the Garter" and Uncle Henry the "Prince of Whales". Wikked suggests he retain his power by marrying Dorothy. The Wizard helps the two prisoners escape by giving Snowball a lion costume, which he uses to scare away the guards. Though the Scarecrow manages to reach Dorothy to warn her against Kruel, he is chased back down into the dungeon by the Tin Man, and ends up getting trapped inside a lion cage (with real lions) for a while. He and Snowball finally escape. When Kynd finds Kruel trying to force Dorothy to marry him, they engage in a sword fight. When Kruel''s henchmen intervene and help disarm Kynd, the Scarecrow saves Dorothy and Kynd. Defeated, Kruel claims that he took Dorothy to Kansas in order to protect her from court factions out to harm her, but she orders that he be taken away. The Scarecrow is heartbroken to discover that Dorothy has fallen for Prince Kynd. He then flees up a tower from the Tin Man, who tries to blast him with a cannon. Snowball flies a biplane overhead, and the Scarecrow manages to grab a rope ladder dangling underneath it. However, the ladder breaks, and he falls. The scene shifts abruptly back to the little girl, who had fallen asleep. She wakes up and leaves. The grandfather reads from the book that Dorothy marries Prince Kynd and they live happily ever after.'
'horror','Dick Bannister is the new field boss of the Ford Logging Company, a Canadian logging-crew during a time when conflicts with the powerful Consolidated Lumber Company, a bitter rival company, have turned bloody, like a private war. His boss, Miss Edith Ford, comes to inspect the lumberjack camp, bringing her doctor fiancé with her. Dick is attacked by his rivals and left for dead. His loss of blood is so great that he needs a transfusion, but no human will volunteer, so the surgeon uses a wolf as a source of the blood. Afterwards, Dick begins having dreams where he runs with a pack of phantom wolves, and the rival loggers get killed by wolves. Soon, these facts have spread through the camp and most of the lumberjacks decide that Dick is a werewolf. Bannister, in his attempt to jump off a cliff, is rescued by Edith.'
'adventure','After his father brings disgrace on his family, Monte joins the Spanish–American War and goes with his regiment to the Philippines. Although he has a sweetheart back home, Claire Marsh, Monte is enlisted to romance a half-caste girl, Roma, who knows the whereabouts of the Philippine leader Emilio Aguinaldo. Monte must keep up the ruse, even when Claire comes to the islands to visit him. He finally gets the information he needs, but not before he is branded a deserter and then has to prove his mettle on the battlefield. When the insurrection is squelched and Aguinaldo is captured, Monte is able to explain everything to Claire, and the couple is reunited.'
'romantic drama','The film is set in the reign of King Louis XIII. When Châtellerault fails to win the heart of the icy Roxalanne de Lavedan, he wagers his entire estate against that of Bardelys that Bardelys can''t either. On the way to the Lavedan estate, Bardelys stumbles upon a wounded and dying man, Lesperon, who asks Bardelys to say farewell to his beloved but dies before telling him her name. Bardelys takes his papers and assumes his identity, only to find that Lesperon is a traitor to the king. Bardelys, as Lesperon, encounters the king''s soldiers who are hunting Lesperon, fights them, and escapes, badly wounded, to the castle of Lavedan. Roxalanne hides him from the king''s soldiers and tends to his wounds. She nurses him to health and pledges her love, but when the guilt-ridden Bardelys refuses to marry her, and in the belief that he is betrothed to another lady, she angrily turns him over to the king''s men. Bardelys, still believed to be Lesperon, is brought to trial for treason—where Châtellerault is the judge. Châtellerault refuses to admit his identity and condemns him to death. Roxalanne finds Bardelys in prison, confesses her love, and agrees to marry Châtellerault in a desperate effort to save Bardelys'' life. Bardelys escapes from the gallows just as the King arrives to confirm his identity. Châtellerault commits suicide rather than be executed by Louis'' men. Roxalanne learns of the wager and, mortally insulted, refuses to believe Bardelys when he protests his love. He offers to save the life of her father, who is indicted for treason, if she agrees to marry him. She agrees. He fulfills his part of the bargain but tells her he will not require her promise of her. She confesses her love and begs him not to leave.[2]'
'mystery, thriller','Gideon Bell, owner of the Favre Emeralds, receives a letter stating that the emeralds will be stolen at midnight by "the Bat", and that police will not be able to stop the robbery. The Bat, a figure dressed as a bat, murders Gideon and steals the emeralds. The Bat leaves a bat-shaped note for the chief of police to inform him that he will be traveling to the country. The Bat travels by car to a mansion built by Courtleigh Fleming, the president of the Oakdale Bank, who has recently been found dead in Colorado. The mansion is being rented for the summer by writer Cornelia Van Gorder, whose maid, Lizzie Allen, sets up a bear trap to catch the Bat. Richard Fleming, Courtleigh''s spendthrift nephew, wishes to lease the mansion, and plans with Dr. H. E. Wells to frighten Van Gorder away. The newspaper reports that Brooks Bailey, a cashier at Oakdale Bank, has robbed the bank of $200,000 and has disappeared. Van Gorder''s niece, Miss Dale Ogden, arrives with a supposed new gardener. Van Gorder asks the gardener about his knowledge on alopecia, urticaria, and rubeola, and he answers as if the terms referred to plants rather than medical conditions. On the staircase, Richard is shot, and Miss Dale manages to snatch part of a blueprint of the house from his pocket. Detective Moletti accuses her of trying to find a supposed hidden room in the mansion that should be shown on the blueprint. Detective Anderson arrives, and the group gets a call from the house phone in the garage, which sounds like groans of distress. A circular light shines on the wall, with the shadow of a bat in its center, but after investigating, the group finds that the shape was caused by a miller moth on a car headlight. Dr. Wells has Miss Dale recreate Richard''s murder, and she notes that she tucked the blueprint in a Parker House roll on a tray, but the blueprint is now gone. The new gardener is revealed to be Brooks Bailey, and Anderson attempts to arrest him for robbery, murder, and impersonation, but Miss Dale stops him, revealing that she and Brooks are engaged. Dr. Wells searches for the hidden room by knocking on walls, which causes the others to investigate the sound, leading them to a ballroom which is supposedly haunted. The candles in the ballroom go out when lit, and a shape appears to float towards Anderson and Lizzie, but it turns out to be the Japanese butler Billy carrying a lamp. After being confronted by Moletti, Dr. Wells knocks Moletti unconscious by striking his head, and he hides Moletti''s body in another room. A beaten man enters the house, and Anderson finds that he has no identification on his person. Billy sees a mysterious figure wearing a hat, and as he leaves to tell the others, the Bat''s shadow passes by the door. The Bat sets up a system of wires that attach to a light switch. Outside, Brooks sees the figure in the hat crossing the roof, and realizes that it is the supposedly dead Courtleigh Fleming. Miss Dale finds the hidden room, located behind a fireplace. The Bat confronts her, demanding the combination to the safe in the hidden room, but she escapes. Dr. Wells is accused of helping the Bat, and the Bat is soon captured and held at gunpoint. However, the Bat activates the wire system, turning off the lights and allowing himself to escape. The Bat flees outside but his leg is caught in the bear trap placed earlier by Lizzie. The others find him and remove his mask, revealing him to be Moletti. The beaten, unknown man announces that he is the true Detective Moletti, and that the man underneath the Bat''s mask was merely an impersonator of Moletti.'
'comedy','Alfred''s father wants him to make a man of himself so sends him off on a hunting and fishing trip. He doesn''t catch or shoot anything, but he does fall in love with a mountain girl. When her father and brothers laugh at this they are told that he is Alfred "Battling" Butler, the championship fighter. From there on the masquerade must be maintained.'
'swashbuckler','Major de Beaujolais leads a French Foreign Legion battalion across the Sahara desert to relieve Fort Zinderneuf, reportedly besieged by Arabs. When he arrives, he receives no response from the Legionnaires manning the walls, only a single shot. He realizes they are dead. The trumpeter volunteers to scale the wall and open the gate, but after waiting 15 minutes, the major climbs inside himself. He finds the dead commandant with a bayonet stuck in him and a note in his hand addressed to the chief of police of Scotland Yard which states that the writer is solely responsible for the theft of the "Blue Water" sapphire from Lady Patricia Brandon. Soon after, the bodies of the commandant and the man beside him disappear. Then the fort is set afire. The major sends two Americans to fetch reinforcements. The film then flashes back fifteen years to Kent, England. The three young Geste brothers and a girl named Isobel stage a naval battle with toy ships. When John Geste is accidentally shot in the leg, Michael "Beau" Geste digs the bullet out, then tells John that he is worthy of a Viking''s funeral. Beau burns one ship, along with a toy soldier and a "dog" (broken off a vase). Beau then gets Digby, his other brother, to promise to give him a Viking''s funeral if he dies first. Lady Patricia cares for the Gestes, her orphaned nephews, while Isobel is her husband''s niece. She introduces them to the Rajah Ram Singh and then-Captain Henri de Beaujolais. Lady Patricia is in financial straits; her estranged husband "has taken every penny that comes from the estate." After the children become adults, she receives a telegram, announcing that her husband intends to sell the "Blue Water", a family jewel. She has it brought to her. Someone turns out the lights and steals it. The next morning, Beau is gone, leaving Digby a note claiming to be the thief. Digby follows, writing to John that he is the culprit. John tells Isobel that he took the jewel and departs too. John joins the Foreign Legion and is reunited with his brothers. Boldini overhears them joking about the jewel. That night, Boldini is caught stealing Beau''s belt. Sergeant Lejaune decides to assign John and his American friends Hank and Buddy to Beaujolais, while he takes Beau and Digby with him to Fort Zinderneuf. Boldini tells Lejaune about the jewel, supposedly hidden in Beau''s belt. After Lieutenant Maurel dies, Lejaune assumes command. After a fortnight of Lejaune''s cruelty, some of the men plot mutiny. Beau, John and three others remain loyal. Boldini tells Beau and John that Lejaune knows about the mutiny and plans to have the men kill each other so there will be no witnesses to his theft of the jewel. Lejaune arms the loyalists, then demands that Beau give him the jewel for "safekeeping", but is rebuffed. Lejaune captures the mutineers, but an Arab attack forces him to arm them. After each Legionnaire is killed, Lejaune props up his body and makes it appear he is still alive. Finally, only Lejaune, Beau and John remain. Then Beau is seemingly killed. When John sees Lejaune searching Beau''s body, he grabs his bayonet, but Lejaune draws his pistol and sentences him to death. Beau, barely alive, grabs Lejaune''s leg, enabling John to stab him. Before dying, Beau tells John to desert and deliver a letter to their aunt. When John spots the relief force, he fires a single shot, then leaves. Digby climbs in and finds Beau. Remembering his childhood promise, he gives his brother a Viking''s funeral, with a dog (Lejaune) at his feet. Then he deserts and finds John. They run into Hank and Buddy. Five days later, they are lost, with little water and only one camel left. Digby leaves a letter for the sleeping John (stating that one camel can carry three, but not four) and walks away. John returns home to his love Isobel and delivers Beau''s letter to Lady Patricia. She reads it aloud. Beau tells how he witnessed her selling the Blue Water to Ram Singh. To protect his aunt, Beau stole the imitation.'
'crime thriller','Mathias, an innkeeper with several other businesses, seeks to be burgomaster of a small Austrian hamlet. In order to gain favor with local leaders, he offers food and alcohol on credit, but often refuses to collect, much to the dismay of his wife Catharine. Mathias is deeply in debt to Frantz, who seeks Mathias'' businesses. He will forgive the debt if Mathias allows him to marry his daughter, Annette. Mathias refuses, and is worried about the debt which will come due soon. One evening a Polish Jew enters Mathias'' inn. The man displays a money belt filled with gold, which Mathias, having had much to drink with the man, eyes closely. When the man leaves in a blizzard, Mathias pursues and kills him; before he dies, the man shakes a set of horse bells at him. Having come into money through murder, Mathias pays off his debt, provides a dowry for his daughter to marry, and is elected burgomaster. However, he is haunted by the sound of bells and hallucinations of the man he killed. The man''s brother comes and offers a reward, bringing a "mesmerist" to help find the murderer. Mathias is pursued by the mesmerist and his own guilt throughout the rest of the film. He suffers hallucinations and nightmarish dreams of the murdered man until the final reel, in which he confesses his crime aloud to the ghost, then collapses, dead.'
'comedy','Old Bill (Sydney Chaplin), a jovial Limey sergeant, discovers that the major of his regiment is a German spy in collusion with Gaspard (Theodore Lorch), the local innkeeper. The spies mistrust him and poison his wine; but it spills and eats a hole in the floor through which Gaspard falls into the cellar. Trying to rescue him, Bill discovers a cote of carrier pigeons. Tipped off by the major, the Germans bomb an opera house where Bill and fellow soldier Alf (Jack Ackroyd) are performing; they escape, however, in their impersonation of a horse and later pose as German soldiers in a German regiment. Bill manages to get a photograph of the major greeting the German general, but it falls into the hands of Joan (Doris Hill), a prisoner of war. Bill is forced to join a German attack against the British, and though he saves his own regiment, he is shot as a German spy. An old friend, however, has substituted blank cartridges for the real ones, and Bill is pardoned when Joan and his friend Bert arrive with the incriminating photograph.'
'comedy','Beverly Calhoun (Davies) impersonates the Prince of Graustark to claim his birthright while he recovers from a skiing injury. In the meantime, she falls for her bodyguard Dantan (Moreno).'
'swashbuckler','The film begins with the looting of a ship already captured and badly mauled, by the pirates. After relieving the ship and crew of valuables, the pirates fire the ship, blowing up the gunpowder on board, sinking her. While the pirates celebrate, two survivors wash up on an island, an old man and his son. Before dying, the older man gives his signet ring to his son (Douglas Fairbanks). His son buries him, vowing vengeance. The Pirate Captain and Lieutenant bring some crew to the other side of the same island to bury some of their plunder. They then plan to murder the other pirates: "Dead men tell no tales." But first, Fairbanks appears as the "Black Pirate", who offers to join their company and fight their best man to prove his worth. After much fighting, the Black Pirate kills the Pirate Captain. The Pirate Lieutenant sneers, and says there is more to being a pirate than sword tricks. To further prove his worth, the Black Pirate says he will capture the next ship of prey single-handed, which he does. He then uses his wits to prevent the pirates from blowing up the ship along with the crew and passengers, suggesting that they hold the ship for ransom. When a woman is discovered on board, the Pirate Lieutenant claims her. In love at first sight, the Black Pirate finds a way to temporarily save her from this fate by presenting her as a "princess" and urging the crew to use her as a hostage to ensure their ransom will be paid, as long as she remains "spotless and unharmed". The pirates cheer the Black Pirate, and want to name him captain. The Pirate Lieutenant jeers but consents to wait to see if the ransom is paid by noon the next day. However, he secretly has a confederate destroy the ransom ship later that night to ensure it will not return. Then, when the Black Pirate is caught trying to release the woman, the Pirate Lieutenant exposes him as a traitor and the pirates force him to walk the plank. At noon the next day, with the ransom ship having failed to show, the Pirate Lieutenant goes to the woman to claim his prize. But just then, the Black Pirate, who with the help of the sympathetic one-armed pirate MacTavish had survived being sent overboard, returns leading troops to stop the pirates. After a long fight, the pirates are routed. In the end, the Black Pirate is revealed to be a Duke, and the "Princess" he loves a noble Lady. Even MacTavish is moved to tears of joy by the happy ending.'
'drama','The Blackbird (Lon Chaney) is a thief who uses a second identity when necessary. He lives above a cheap bar in the Limehouse district, where his alter ego The Bishop, is beloved among all guests, One evening, the police drop by looking for him after a robbery, and he flees to a vaudeville theater, where his ex-wife Limehouse Polly (Doris Lloyd) has an act. Since their divorce they have become bitter towards one another, but Polly is willing to admit that she once married The Blackbird ''because she saw the soul in him that he did not know he got himself''. Furthermore, she admits to her father that she is still in love with him. The Blackbird, though, has become infatuated by Mademoiselle Fifi Lorraine (Renée Adorée), another performer and Polly''s rival. He gives her a gun as a gift, explaining to her that someone as pretty as her should have a pistol or a man to protect her. Fifi prefers a diamond collar, and turns to a much wealthier guest in turn, West End Bertie (Owen Moore). The Blackbird catches him stealing a diamond collar for Fifi, but after a battle, he is the one handing it over to her. Nevertheless, Bertie wins her affection and takes her home at the end of the night. When The Blackbird finds out that Bertie and Fifi have become engaged, he poses as The Bishop to reveal to Fifi that Bertie is a crook. Bertie admits this, but twists the story to make him look sympathetic, thereby making Fifi fall for him even more. Seeing how the plan backfired, The Blackbird turns Bertie in to a Scotland Yard inspector. Before they can get him for robbery and murder, Fifi decides to help her fiance hide, something she afterwards reveals to The Bishop. Seeing how she is now involved, The Blackbirds changes his plans and, posed as The Bishop, offers Bertie a bed in his secret room. To drive them apart, The Bishop tells Bertie that he can not escape because the police are looking for him in the Limehouse district, and claims to Fifi that Bertie will escape that night, on his own. Fifi offers Bertie to go along, but when he responds that he is not going because of the police, she thinks that he is lying to her and starts an argument. During this, Bertie is set up to believe that Fifi told the cops on him, and she leaves in tears. Meanwhile, Polly finds out that the police are also looking for The Blackbird for killing a Scotland Yarder. Just as The Blackbird and Fifi are about to kiss, Polly drops by to share the terrible news. Realizing the setting she has walked in, she turns her back on The Blackbird, which causes him to respond in anger, thereby scaring off Fifi. At that moment, the police barges in. The Blackbird is able to dress himself up as The Bishop, but falls and breaks his back during the process, thereby actually becoming crippled. When Polly is asked to burn his clothes, she realizes that The Blackbird and The Bishop are the same. In the end, Fifi and Bertie are reunited. With Polly''s help, The Blackbird is able to trick the police for a final time, but he dies in the aftermath.'
'drama','Several struggling bohemians try to survive in the Latin Quarter of Paris in the winter of 1830, hoping to one day become famous. Playwright Rodolphe (John Gilbert) and his painter roommate Marcel (Gino Corrado) have trouble with Bernard (Eugene Pouyet), the landlord, who threatens to throw them out if they do not come up with the monthly rent that night. Rodolphe reluctantly starts writing an overdue article for a journal editor to earn some money, but the editor rejects his work. With the help of their friends, musician Schaunard (George Hassell) and bookish Colline (Edward Everett Horton), they are able to raise the money. Their next door neighbor, Mimi (Lillian Gish), an orphaned, friendless embroiderer, has the same problem. Bernard is attracted to her, but when she does not respond to his overture, he issues the same threat. She takes her meager belongings to the municipal pawnshop, but does not receive enough money to pay the rent. On her way back, she is nearly run over (deliberately) by the carriage of the rich, idle aristocrat Vicomte Paul (Roy D''Arcy). She has to fend off his advances. When Marcel is invited to dinner by his girlfriend and downstairs neighbor, Musette (Renée Adorée), he persuades her to allow Schaunard to join them. Then the musician gets her to include Colline, who asks for Rodolphe. Rodolphe misses his cue to join the festivities in order to become acquainted with Mimi. Seeing how cold she is, he invites her to warm herself in his apartment. Later, after she vacates her room, Rodolphe entices her to share in the food Musette has provided. Then Vicomte Paul comes over. She thinks he wants some embroidery done, not realizing he has baser motives. Rodolphe does and immediately becomes jealous of the aristocrat. In any case, Mimi is able to pay her rent and stay. In spring, Mimi joins her friends out in the country for her very first picnic. She and the love-smitten Rodolphe wander away. After a while, she admits that she loves him. This inspires Rodolphe to write a play. When Mimi takes his latest, long overdue article to his editor, she is requested to tell him that he is discharged. Wanting Rodolphe to continue working undisturbed on his play, she works secretly at night to keep up the deception that he still has a paying job. The strain, however, makes her sick. When Vicomte Paul comes to pick up Mimi''s handiwork, she tells him of Rodolphe''s new play. Still hoping to seduce her, he offers to show it to a theatrical manager, if she will come with him to the theatre. Rodolphe sees them together and, in a rage, accuses Mimi of having an affair. She tries to explain, but he refuses to listen. Rodolphe tries to forget Mimi. When he runs into the editor, he is surprised to hear he was fired five weeks ago. Meanwhile, Mimi, with Musette''s help, dresses up and goes with Vicomte Paul to the theatre, hoping to get Rodolphe''s play accepted. She once again rejects the vicomte''s advances. Returning home, she is confronted by Rodolphe. She admits having worked in secret for him. He initially forgives her, until he finds out that she went out with Vicomte Paul and jumps to the conclusion she got the money from him. He hits her, but soon apologizes when he discovers she is very sick. Rodolphe goes to find a doctor, but she leaves before they return, explaining in a letter that she will come back when his play is a success. He searches for her for months. Out of his anguish, a new and greater play is born. This turns out to be a hit, but he is miserable without Mimi. Meanwhile, Mimi is toiling in the slums of Paris, but the hard work is too much for the frail woman. She collapses. The doctor tells her coworkers she will not live out the night. She stumbles out into the street and eventually reaches her old apartment. Rodolphe is ecstatic to see her. Their friends, however, realize her condition. While he goes to fetch her pet bird, she tells Musette she is happy, before dying.'
'drama','Comedy about a small-town girl unhappy with her family, and a boy trying to please her by throwing a big party.'
'comedy drama','Virginia Perry leaves her husband and child to return to Hollywood; but having dissipated her beauty and seeking solace in drink, she soon finds herself another "has been" on the fringe of movie circles. Her daughter, Betty Anne, wins a national beauty contest, and en route to Hollywood she meets Hal, another contest winner; both fail in their first screen attempts and turn to Marshall, an unscrupulous trickster, who enrolls them in his acting school. Molly, a movie extra, induces Betty Anne to attend a wild party; she is arrested in a raid; and Hal, to raise the money for her bail, takes a "stunt" job in which he is badly hurt. Betty Anne seeks the aid of star actor McLain, who obtains for her the leading female role in his next film; Virginia, who is cast as her mother, keeps silent about their relationship until the film is completed. Apprehensive for her daughter''s safety, she shoots Marshall while in a drunken stupor and is arrested. At the trial, Betty Anne''s testimony saves her mother, who is then happily united with her daughter and Hal.'
'american football','Harvard University student Tom Brown (William Haines) is a handsome, athletic, and carefree young man who has a reputation as a Don Juan among the ladies. Although he is popular on campus, he finds himself at odds with Bob McAndrew (Ralph Bushman), a studious, reserved boy who becomes his chief rival for the affections of beautiful Mary Abbott (Mary Brian), a professor''s daughter. Tom rooms with Jim Doolittle (Jack Pickford), an awkward weakling but goodhearted backwoods youth who idolizes him. The brash and cocky Brown easily wins over his dormitory mates, but refuses to let them ostracize Jim. One night at a party, Tom forcibly kisses Mary, which initiates a fight with Bob. Afterwards, Tom challenges Bob to a rowing competition; Bob is stroker on the college rowing team. Tom ends up losing. When he forces a confession of love from Mary, he begins to drink in shame. When he replaces Bob in a match against Yale, Tom collapses and is disgraced. He is persuaded by his father to go out for football. To save his friend''s reputation, the sickly Jim goes out and takes his place in the rain and is soon hospitalized. Tom plays in the game against Yale and at a crucial point gives Bob a chance to score for the team. After the game, Tom goes to the hospital to tell Jim of the victory, but Jim dies shortly afterward. Tom is acclaimed a school hero and is happily united with Mary.'
'comedy','The film stars actor Rod La Rocque as ''Jerry Cleggert'', a good-natured descendant of an 18th-century pirate who resides aboard the rickety ship Jasper B. Cleggert is informed that in order to inherit a large inheritance, he must marry on his twenty-fifth birthday - otherwise he would relinquish all claims to his impending fortune. Jerry soon meets his ideal would-be bride Agatha Fairhaven (Mildred Harris) and the two immediately fall in love. Complications arise when the dastardly Reginald Maltravers (Snitz Edwards) attempts to cheat Agatha out of her inheritance. The courting couple suffer a series of mishaps on the way to altar; they are waylaid en route by a trio of bandits, escape from a runaway taxi cab, and outrun a mob of unscrupulous state authorities. The weary couple finally manage to wed just before the deadline on board the Jasper B and Cleggert inherits his family fortune.'
'comedy','May (Claire Windsor) is married to Roger (Conrad Nagel), an alcoholic hell-raiser. During one of their riotous parties, she tests his fidelity by impersonating a notorious masked dancer (Hedda Hopper) and trying to seduce him.'
'adventure','In the prologue, Don José, warned of his wife''s infidelity, seals his wife''s lover alive in his hiding place and drives her from the castle; abandoned to his lust, he is stabbed by his last mistress, and with his dying words he implores his son, Don Juan, to take all from women but yield nothing. Ten years later, young Don Juan, a graduate of the University of Pisa, is famous as a lover and pursued by many women, including the powerful Lucrezia Borgia, who invites him to her ball. His contempt for her incites her hatred of Adriana, the daughter of the Duke Della Varnese, with whom he is enraptured; and Lucrezia plots to marry her to Count Giano Donati, one of the Borgia henchmen, and poison the duke. Don Juan intervenes and thwarts the scheme, winning the love of Adriana, but the Borgia declare war on the duke''s kinsmen, offering them safety if Adriana marries Donati; Don Juan is summoned to the wedding, but he prefers death to marriage with Lucrezia. He escapes and kills Donati in a duel. The lovers are led to the death-tower, but while Adriana pretends suicide, he escapes; and following a series of battles, he defeats his pursuers and is united with Adriana.'
'comedy','In the house of late father, Ella Cinders (Colleen Moore) works for her stepmother and two stepsisters, Prissy Pill (Emily Gerdes) and Lotta Pill (Doris Baker), finding support from the local iceman, Waite Lifter (Lloyd Hughes). The Gem Film Company has a contest in which the winner gets an all-expense paid trip to Hollywood and a film role. A photograph is needed to enter, so Ella spends three nights babysitting to raise $3 for the photo session. However, the photographer unwittingly take a picture of her looking cross-eyed at a fly on her nose which turns out to be the photo entered in the contest. Entrants must go to a Town Hall ball, but Ella''s stepmother and stepsisters won''t allow her to go. Waite sees her crying on the front steps and tells her he will take her to the ball. She says she has nothing to wear, so he convinces her to use one of her stepsisters'' dresses. At the judges'' table, her stepsisters react violently when they see the dress. The embarrassed Ella flees the ball, losing one of her slippers. Later, the judges come to the house and tell Ella that she is the winner because they were amused by the cross-eyed photo. Ella heads for Hollywood, where she is disappointed to discover the contest was a fraud. She nevertheless manages to land a movie contract. Waite turns out to be football hero George Waite, and the two are reunited.'
'drama','The film concerns a rich young Frenchman (Conrad Nagel) who forsakes the humdrum business world for the bohemian life of an artist. Renee Adoree co-stars as "The Gypsy Maid" who leads the hero merrily astray. Myrna Loy makes a brief, barely clothed appearance as "The Living Statue," the first of von Sternberg''s many beautiful "mannequins."'
'comedy','Burlesque chorus girl Orchid Murphy (Gloria Swanson) attracts the attention of wealthy Brian Alden (Eugene O''Brien), who is posing as a writer while "slumming" in the city. Finding her manner quite refreshing compared to the women he usually meets in his circle, he falls in love with her and confesses his wealth. After she agrees to marriage, he leaves for a six-month tour of South America, and Orchid takes a course in "fine manners" to better prepare herself for Brian''s world. She becomes too polished, however, and when asked by Brian to marry him upon his return, is happy to become herself again.'
'melodrama','The film is a romantic melodrama[1] about two childhood friends, Leo and Ulrich, who grow up to be soldiers in Germany. Leo becomes infatuated with Felicitas, the wife of a powerful count (a marriage about which Felicitas neglects to inform Leo). The count calls for a duel of honor with Leo, but insists that it be done under the false pretense that the quarrel was due to angry words exchanged between the two at a card game in order to protect the count''s reputation. Leo kills the count in the duel, but then is punished by the military, being sent away to Africa for five years. Due to Ulrich''s intervention, Leo only serves three years before being recalled home. On his return journey he focuses on his dream of being reunited with Felicitas. Before he left for Africa, Leo had asked Ulrich to take care of Felicitas'' needs while he was away. Ulrich — unaware that his friend is in love with Felicitas — falls in love with her and marries her. Upon his return, Leo finds himself torn between Felicitas — which the woman encourages — and his friendship for Ulrich. Condemned by a local pastor for continuing to associate with Felicitas, Leo eventually loses control of his emotions, leading to a climactic duel between the two boyhood friends. While racing to stop the duel, Felicitas falls through a layer of thin ice and drowns. Meanwhile, the friends reconcile, realizing that their friendship is more important than Felicitas.'
'comedy','Millionaire J. Harold Manners (Harold Lloyd) finds himself in the poor part of town one day. When he accidentally sets fire to a charity pushcart dispensing free coffee and owned by do-gooder Brother Paul (Paul Weigel), he pulls out his checkbook to cover the damage. Brother Paul, who was talking to another person about his dream to build a mission, assumes he wants to pay for the mission and tells him $1000. Though he finds that a rather hefty amount for a mere pushcart, Manners pays without complaint. Once Manners reads in the newspaper that he is sponsoring a mission, he goes there to dissociate himself from it. He is aghast to find it named the J. Harold Manners Mission. When he starts to tear down the sign, he is scolded by Brother Paul''s daughter, Hope (Jobyna Ralston), who does not know who he is. Far from being offended, he is smitten with her. Thus, when Brother Paul returns and invites him inside to tour the place, he readily accepts. Hope, once she learns his identity, apologizes. In order to build up attendance, Manners runs through town provoking people, and winds up with a crowd chasing him right into the mission. Some of the men are in possession of the proceeds of a jewel robbery. Before they can beat him up, however, the police arrive. The quick-witted Manners takes up a "collection"; the crooks deposit their loot in the hat he is using while the police search everybody. This act earns him the friendship of the gang. He eventually wins the girl and they decide to get married at the mission. His high-brow friends decide to kidnap him, believing they are saving him from a terrible mistake. As they drive away, one of them tells the wedding''s "reception committee" that Manners is not going to marry Hope. The disappointed committeemen get drunk. Then their leader decides to go to Manner''s club to confirm the news. They free Manners and head back to the mission. Manners has his hands full shepherding five drunks, but finally gets them all there and marries Hope.'
'comedy','A deceiver leads the fast set in Paris and is involved in love affairs and blackmail until he mends his way for his daughter''s sake.'
'comedy','Western & Atlantic Railroad train engineer Johnnie Gray (Keaton) is in Marietta, Georgia to see one of the two loves of his life, his fiancée Annabelle Lee (Marion Mack)—the other being his locomotive, The General—when the American Civil War breaks out. He hurries to be first in line to enlist in the Confederate Army, but is rejected because he is too valuable in his present job; unfortunately, Johnnie is not told this reason and is forcibly ejected. On leaving, he runs into Annabelle''s father and brother, who beckon to him to join them in line, but he sadly walks away, giving them the impression that he does not want to enlist. Annabelle coldly informs Johnnie that she will not speak to him again until he is in uniform. A year passes, and Annabelle receives word that her father has been wounded. She travels north on the W&ARR with The General pulling the train to see him but still wants nothing to do with Johnnie. When the train makes a stop, the passengers detrain for a quick meal. As planned, Union spies led by Captain Anderson (Glen Cavender) use the opportunity to steal the train. Anderson''s objective is to burn all the railroad bridges he passes, thus preventing reinforcement and resupply of the Confederate army facing Union General Parker''s army. Annabelle becomes an inadvertent prisoner of the raiders. Johnnie gives chase, first on foot, then by handcar and boneshaker bicycle, before reaching a station in Chattanooga. He alerts the army detachment there, which boards another train to give chase, with Johnnie manning the locomotive, Texas. However, the flatcars are not hooked up to the engine, and the troops are left behind. By the time Johnnie realizes he is alone, it is too late to turn back. The Union agents try a variety of methods to shake their dogged pursuer (convinced he is accompanied by Confederate soldiers), including disconnecting their trailing car and dropping railroad ties on the tracks. As the unusual duel continues northward, the Confederate Army of Tennessee is ordered to retreat and the Northern army advances in its wake. Johnnie finally notices he is surrounded by Union soldiers and the hijackers see that Johnnie is by himself. Johnnie stops the Texas and runs into the forest to hide. At nightfall, Johnnie stumbles upon the Northern encampment. Hungry, he climbs through a window to steal some food, but hides underneath the table when some officers enter. He overhears their plan for a surprise attack and that the Rock River Bridge is essential for their supply trains to support the attack. He then sees Annabelle brought in; she is taken to a room under guard while they decide what to do with her. Johnnie manages to knock out both guards and free Annabelle. They escape into the woods under cover of a rainstorm. The next day, Johnnie and Annabelle find themselves near a railway station, where Union soldiers and equipment are being organized for the attack. Seeing The General, Johnnie devises a plan to warn the South. After sneaking Annabelle onto a boxcar behind The General, Johnnie steals his engine back. Two Union trains, including the Texas, set out after the pair, while the Union attack is immediately launched. In a reversal of the first chase, Johnnie now has to fend off his pursuers. Finally, he starts a fire behind The General in the center of the Rock River Bridge to cut off his pursuers and the Union''s important supply line. Reaching friendly lines, Johnnie warns the local Confederate commander of the impending attack. Confederate forces rush to defend the bridge. Meanwhile, Annabelle is reunited with her convalescing father. The Texas drives onto the burning bridge, which collapses (in what would later come to be recognized as the most expensive stunt of the silent era).[4] Union soldiers try to ford the river, but Confederate fire drives them back. Afterward, Johnnie returns to his locomotive to find the Union officer whom he had knocked out earlier in order to escape regaining consciousness. He takes the officer prisoner and is spotted by the general leaving the locomotive with him. As a reward for his bravery, he is commissioned a lieutenant and given the captured officer''s sword. Returning to The General with Annabelle, he tries to kiss his girl but has to return the salutes of troops walking past. Johnnie finally uses his left hand to embrace Annabelle while using his right to blindly salute the passing soldiers while he kisses her as the screen fades to black.'
'drama','An adaptation of F. Scott Fitzgerald''s Long Island-set novel, where Midwesterner Nick Carraway is lured into the lavish world of his neighbor, Jay Gatsby. Soon enough, however, Carraway will see through the cracks of Gatsby''s nouveau riche existence, where obsession, madness, and tragedy await.'
'western','Following a series of robberies of the K & A Railroad, detective Tom Gordon (Tom Mix) is hired to uncover the mystery. Disguised as a bandit, Tom boards the train of K & A President Cullen. Cullen''s daughter, Madge, senses that Tom is not a criminal and soon falls in love with him. Madge is sought after by Burton (Carl Miller), her father''s secretary, who is in league with the bandits. Tom eventually discovers his duplicity, and with the aid of Tony, his horse, rounds up the villains and wins the hand of Madge.'
'comedy','The film tells the story of Jack, a spy for the Confederate States of America during the Civil War, and his efforts to capture a Union shipment of gold. Obstacles along the way include a pair of sisters, hostile Indians, and a firing squad. The film features fictional incidents involving actual historical figures such as Abraham Lincoln, Brigham Young, and Sitting Bull.'
'drama','Julian Perryam (Lloyd Hughes) gets thrown out of Oxford University and returns to the family estate outside London. He discovers that his sister and his mother are caught up in the "jazz" life and their father, who''s the editor of a tabloid scandal rag, is too busy to notice. He also discovers that his sister is in love with the scoundrel son of his father''s publisher, Victor Buckland. Learning that Buckland is actually an embezzler, Julian gets a job as a reporter on a muckraking publication and sets out to expose Buckland.'
'comedy','Jewel Courage (Borden) rejects a suitor (Hamilton), whom she thinks is a chauffeur, in favor of a man she thinks is a millionaire. It transpires that the roles were, in fact, reversed; Hamilton is the millionaire and the other man a chauffeur. Jewel is crushed but manages to do well for herself in business, until she and the real millionaire find themselves reconciled.[2][3]'
'comedy','After a bully helps him out of a jam, Samuel "Kid" Boots tries to return the favor by helping his new friend get free from a gold digging wife.'
'romantic comedy','Kiki (Norma Talmadge) ekes out a living selling newspapers on the streets of Paris. When she learns that a chorus girl has been fired from the Folies Barbes revue managed by Victor Renal (Ronald Colman), she sets out to fulfill her dream and apply for the job. Poverty stricken, she spends her rent money to buy suitable clothes. She gets kicked out the first time, as she was not sent by the Agency, but manages to sneak back in. While waiting in the reception area, she is mistaken for the secretary by an Agency applicant, who gives Kiki her letter of recommendation to present to Renal. He mistakes it for Kiki''s, and gives her an audition. Her singing talent gets her the job. Her debut, however, is a disaster. She repeatedly gets in the way of the show''s star and Renal''s fiancée, Paulette Mascar (Gertrude Astor). Paulette finally pushes her, sending her crashing into a harp in the orchestra pit. When Renal tries to separate the battling women, Paulette slaps him. Renal also sends Kiki a letter of dismissal. When she comes to see him, he feels sorry for her and gives her back her job. He tries to hustle her out of his office, before Paulette enters, but Kiki refuses to leave. As a result, Paulette and Renal have a falling-out. Renal decides to take Kiki to dinner. Paulette goes out with Renal''s financial backer, Baron Rapp (Marc McDermott), and ends up at the same restaurant. Determined to humiliate her rival, Paulette invites herself to Renal''s table and taunts Kiki into drinking several glasses of champagne. Kiki becomes drunk, embarrassing Renal. He deposits her in his limousine and asks where she lives. As she has been evicted for not paying the rent, she confesses she has no place to go, so he takes her home. He kisses her, but when he tries for more, she locks herself in his bedroom. He is forced to sleep (uncomfortably) in another room. Each day, Renal decides to get rid of her, but each night he relents. Meanwhile, Kiki intercepts Paulette''s daily letters to him to prevent a reconciliation. Renal finally learns about the letters from Rapp. Rapp recommends he get back together with Paulette and offers to take Kiki off his hands. Kiki mistakenly believes that Renal wants Paulette back, while Renal thinks in error that Kiki welcomes Rapp''s attentions and greater wealth. Kiki decides to go, taking only what she came with, but then changes her mind and decides to fight for her love. After she threatens Paulette with a knife, Renal orders her to leave. Thinking quickly, Kiki pretends to fall into a coma, convincing a doctor that she is a victim of catalepsy, which the doctor states might last up to two years. Upon hearing this, Rapp makes a hasty departure. Despite Paulette''s urging to leave for a performance, Renal decides he cannot leave Kiki alone. Once Paulette is gone, Kiki kisses Renal and confesses she loves him. He embraces her.'
'fantasy, romance','In London during World War One, a simple-minded slavey awaits her Fairy Godmother and her Prince Charming.'
'western','A telephone line repairman named Joe Graham (Spencer Tracy) lives in Los Angeles. One night he''s offered a promotion but declines telling his boss he''s happy being a "trouble shooter" working out in the field solving problems for a living. Later Joe’s co-worker and partner Dan Sutter cannot work the night shift, and Joe has to work with a new repairman called Casey, who has an aptitude for practical jokes. Joe and Casey run into some odd things during their shift, finding a corpse at the place of their first assignment. When the shift is over, both men go for a drink, and they find their colleague Dan very drunk in a casino. This night the police are on their way to raid the casino, but Casey hears about the raid and manages to warn both his colleagues and the casino owner, causing the raid to be a complete failure. The next day both Casey and Joe are accused of tipping off the owner and causing the raid to be unsuccessful. In an attempt to exculpate himself, Joe tells his boss about the reason for their involvement in the events, and about Dan’s visit to the casino. The result is that Dan is fired from his position without notice. Joe has been involved with one of the company’s switchboard operators, Ethel Greenwood. They split up after he suspected her of dating his partner Dan one night when Joe was working overtime. Now he reconciles with her and they go back together. However, soon after they are reunited, Dan tells Ethel about how he got fired from work, and Ethel is upset with Joe for causing it. They break up again. Joe and Ethel don’t see each other for a while, but he hears she quit her job and started working for another company together with Dan. It turns out the office where they work is a cover-up for a racketeering operation, run by two men by the name of George and Max. Their illegal business idea consists of tapping into the phone lines of a nearby investment company to get secret stock tips. Joe is unaware of this sly operation, until one day when he and Casey are sent to investigate the investment company’s phone lines. They have complained about the lines malfunctioning, and when Joe sees the tap he discloses the racketeering operation. Joe catches Dan red handed, as he is trying to get into the investment company’s vaults and steal the contents. The police are notified, and the robbery in progress is stopped, but Dan manages to escape from the crime scene. Joe tips off the police about Dan and they go to his apartment. When they arrive, Ethel is there to meet up with Dan for their trip to Mexico with the bounty from the robbery. Ethel finds Dan shot and killed in the apartment and comes running out into the street in a state of complete hysteria. When the police catch her, she has a check from Dan’s bosses in her hand, and it has Dan’s fingerprints all over it. Ethel is arrested for killing Dan and being an accomplice in the racketeering operation. Joe is doubtful of Ethel’s involvement in the illegal business, and he doesn’t believe she killed Dan. He decides to find Dan’s other girlfriend and partner in crime, Pearl Latour. Joe searches all over Long Beach to find her, and eventually he does. Pearl confesses to Joe that she indeed killed Dan, and that the reason was that he was trying to trick her and take the money that was hers. While Joe and Pearl are still talking, an earthquake shakes the whole area, and the house where they are caves in from the shaking. Pearl doesn’t escape the house in time and is buried under the masses, but is still alive. To get Pearl’s story about how she killed Dan, Joe and Casey manage to use an emergency phone line to contact her under the debris. Pearl’s last confession is then heard by the police, and Ethel is released. Before Joe can take Pearl in, however, a huge earthquake hits Long Beach, and Pearl is buried in debris. Joe and Casey rig an emergency phone line, and police Captain Flynn records Pearl''s dying confession. Ethel is cleared of all suspicions and released from jail. Upon her release Ethel and Joe are both guests at Casey and his fiancee Maizie’s wedding at city hall, at which Ethel persuades Joe to get a marriage license of his own.[2]'
'horror','In the Latin Quarter of Paris, sculptor Margaret Dauncey is injured when the top of the huge statue of a faun she is working on breaks off and falls on her. After successful surgery by brilliant Dr. Arthur Burdon saves her from paralysis, she and Burdon fall in love. The surgery is watched by various doctors and others, including Oliver Haddo, a hypnotist, magician and student of medicine (a character in Maugham''s original novel based on real-life occultist Aleister Crowley). Later, in the Library of the Arsenal, Haddo finds what he has been searching for: a magic formula for the creation of human life. One of the ingredients is the "heart blood of a Maiden". He rips out the page and presents the old book to Dr. Porhoet, Margaret''s uncle and guardian, who has also been looking for it. When Margaret, Burdon and Dr. Porhoet go to the Fair at Leon de Belfort, they encounter Haddo, whom Margaret dislikes immediately. When Dr. Porhoet claims that the snake charmers use harmless snakes, Haddo refutes him and demonstrates his powers by letting a deadly horned viper bite him. He then magically makes the wound disappear. Porhoet remains unconvinced until the discarded viper strikes a young woman performer. Burdon has to rush her to a hospital. Later, Haddo visits Margaret uninvited. He hypnotizes her and tells her to concentrate on her statue. It seems to come to life to preside over an orgy. Critic Carlos Clarens calls this the high point of the film: "a nightmarish sequence in which the hypnotised heroine (Alice Terry) see herself in the midst of an orgiastic rite presided over by Pan himself, a prancing naked satyr played by Stowitts, the American dancer at the Folies Bergere."[3] Two days before her wedding to Burdon, Margaret receives a note from Haddo, asking her to see him the next morning. She tries to resist the summons, but fails. On the day of the wedding, Burdon learns that Margaret has married Haddo instead. Porhoet is convinced it was against his niece''s will, and Burdon tries to track them down. Burdon eventually encounters the couple at a casino in Monte Carlo. He and Porhoet free Margaret while Haddo is away. Porhoet places her in a sanatorium to recover. Haddo, however, finds her and takes her to his laboratory in a tower. Burdon and Porhoet employ a guide to take them there. Just as Haddo is about to stab a bound Margaret, Burdon bursts in. After a violent struggle, Haddo falls into a huge fire and is killed. Margaret emerges from her trance and is reunited with her true love. Porhoet finds the page with the formula. He burns it and sets the laboratory afire as well.'
'romantic comedy','Ralph Prescott (Marmont) is a New York divorce lawyer tired of his clientele. Woodbury (Pallette), who runs a ladies hosiery business across the hall, suggests that they get away from the city and camp in Mantrap, Canada. Bachelor Joe Easter (Torrence) runs a dry-goods store in Mantrap. Joe, wanting female company, goes to Minneapolis. In a barbershop there, backwoods Joe meets flirtatious manicurist Alverna (Bow), who agrees to meet Joe for dinner. Prescott and Woodbury fight while camping. Joe separates them by taking Prescott back to Mantrap—where Prescott meets Alverna, now married to Joe and bored with backwoods life. Alverna throws a party and flirts, especially with Prescott, who''s attracted to her but honorable enough to leave the next day. Alverna waits for Prescott''s outbound canoe, stops him, and tells him that she''s leaving with him. Alverna insults their Native American guide, who takes the canoe, leaving Prescott and Alverna on their own in the woods. They flag down a passing float plane, which lands in the lake. Alverna flirts with the pilot, angering Prescott. The pilot leaves them some food. Joe tracks them and, after a few days, catches them. Prescott tells Joe he''ll marry Alverna if Joe grants a divorce; Joe counters by telling Prescott that Alverna will never stop flirting. Alverna, shut out by the men who are planning her future, takes the canoe and leaves them both. Prescott returns to his law practice, refreshed by his time in the woods. Joe, lonely in his Mantrap store, defends Alverna to his prudish neighbors—and Alverna returns to Joe, but keeps flirting.'
'spy','As a young boy growing up in a Spanish family with a long and very distinguished maritime tradition, Ulysses Ferragut is regaled with tales of the sea by his retired uncle, the "Triton" (Apollon), and is particularly fascinated by his claim to have once seen the sea goddess Amphitrite. Though his lawyer father, Don Esteban, wants him to follow in his footsteps, Ulysses becomes a sailor. When he is a grown man (Antonio Moreno), Ulysses uses his life savings to purchase the Mare Nostrum, a fast, modern freighter, and prospers. However, he finally gives in to his wife, Dona Cinta, for the sake of their son Esteban, and agrees to sell his ship. With the outbreak of World War I, however, the enormous profits to be made from the sudden demand for shipping ends this plan. On a stop in Italy, Ulysses visits the ruins of Pompeii, and meets Freya Talberg (Alice Terry) and the learned Doctor Fedelmann. He soon falls in love with Freya (who looks exactly like his uncle''s painting of Amphitrite). Though she later informs him that she is an Austrian spy (as is Fedelmann), Spain is neutral and his ardor is undiminished. He agrees to transport Count Kaledine to a secret rendezvous in the Mediterranean. The U-boat U-35 surfaces, takes on fuel from Ulysses'' ship, and departs with Kaledine. Meanwhile, young Esteban leaves home without permission to find his father. After a week waiting for Ulysses at his lodgings, Esteban goes back to Barcelona aboard the Californian, a British passenger ship. However, the boy is killed when the Californian is sunk by the U-35. Ulysses learns of his son''s fate from a survivor, and realizes to his grief his role in the tragedy. He vows to avenge his boy. Upon hearing of the death, Freya sends Ulysses a letter denouncing the barbarity of the act; it is intercepted by Doctor Fedelmann. That, along with Freya''s admission she has fallen in love with Ulysses, convinces Fedelmann that her subordinate can no longer be trusted. She sends Freya to Marseilles, intending to betray her to the French. Freya suspects as much, and begs Ulysses to take her to safety aboard his ship. Ulysses is torn, but a vision of his son shaking his head makes him refuse. Freya is later captured, convicted, and shot by a firing squad at dawn. As he is leaving Freya''s apartment, Ulysses encounters Count Kaledine. After a brief struggle, he chases Kaledine through the streets, gathering a mob. Kaledine is caught and taken into custody. Ulysses then employs the Mare Nostrum in the service of the Allies, arming her with a deck gun, replacing his crew with French military sailors, and transporting munitions to Salonica. Only longtime family friend and sea cook Caragol refuses to leave him. On the voyage, they are intercepted by the U-35. With the Mare Nostrum torpedoed and doomed, Ulysses mans the abandoned deck gun and sinks the U-35. As Ulysses descends into the ocean depths, Amphitrite rises to embrace and kiss him.'
'comedy','Polly Brewster (Daniels), a penniless Hollywood extra, inherits one million dollars from her recently deceased father. However, young lawyer Tom Hancock (Baxter) informs her that she cannot spend the money but must invest it. Her Uncle Ned Brewster (Sterling) arrives and in revenge for indignities his brother made him suffer, he offers Polly his entire fortune of $5 million on the condition that she spend the inherited million within 30 days or less. Polly gleefully sets about investing, gives a great ball and fashion show, and runs down a man with her car and has him sue for a large sum. However, when the deadline arrive, Uncle Ned proves to be penniless; there is no $5 million to be inherited. However, Polly finds that her investment in a motion picture company has yielded a handsome return, and she finds happiness with Tom.'
'romantic comedy','Small-town pitcher Thomas Kelly (Thomas Meighan) is sent to Spring training with a minor league baseball team in Florida, but is fired by its jealous manager, Joe Cooley (Jack W. Johnston). Kelly is then talked into being the celebrity endorser for a Florida real estate firm, and his former teammates invest money in the firm through him. Still jealous of Kelly''s popularity, Cooley conspires with crooked broker Morgan West (Robert Craig) to sell Kelly and the investors some worthless swampland. Kelly and his friends lose their money, but Kelly struggles to recoup the losses. He eventually makes a fortune, repays the investors, and is himself appointed team manager in place of Cooley.'
'adventure','Early in the 19th century, the USS Constitution is launched as part of an effort to stop piracy in the Mediterranean. Meanwhile, a young man determined to go to sea (Farrell) is befriended by the bos''n (Beery) of the merchant ship Esther, and he joins her crew. When the Esther reaches the Mediterranean, she too, along with the Constitution, becomes involved in the battle against the pirates.'
'comedy','Isadore Goldberg, an enterprising Russian Jew, comes to the United States and establishes himself in the delicatessen business so that he can one day send for his parents. Forced to vacate his store, Izzy relocates in an Irish neighborhood; there, after he changes his surname to "Murphy," his business prospers. While waiting for a subway train, Izzy recovers a girl''s handkerchief; later, he meets her in his store and learns that she is Eileen Cohannigan, from whose father he buys foodstuffs. After the arrival of Izzy''s parents, he embarks for France with an all-Irish regiment and inspires his comrades to deeds of valor. He is welcomed home by Cohannigan, but when Cohannigan learns that he is Jewish, he denounces his daughter for loving him. With the aid of his service buddies, however, Izzy and Eileen head for City Hall to be married.'
'adventure','At the beginning of the story, Ahab (John Barrymore) and his half brother Derek (George O''Hara) compete for the affections of a winsome minister''s daughter, Esther Wiscasset (Dolores Costello). Meanwhile, an albino whale has been eluding harpooners, and bears the scars of many failed attacks against him. The animal''s fame has reached epic proportions. One day, Ahab and Derek are on the same whaler as the whale heaves into view. Ahab raises his harpoon to kill the beast, but at that moment, Derek pushes him overboard and Ahab loses his right leg to the whale. Not long after this incident, the shallow Esther rebuffs Ahab as her suitor once she catches sight of his peg leg. Heartbroken at this turn of events, Ahab blames neither Esther nor his brother; instead he transfers blame and an undying hatred onto the whale. The following saga of Ahab''s pursuit of the whale takes on the aura of a super-human quest, far beyond the proportions of its first motivation.'
'comedy','Paul Giraud is happily married to Suzanna, and together they live in a quiet neighborhood. As Suzanna notices that their new neighbors are expressive dancers with revealing outfits, she demands Paul to complain to them about their lack of morality. As Paul knocks on his neighbors'' door, he finds out that the woman is an old flame, Georgette Lalle. They reunite happily, and Georgette even attempts to kiss Paul, despite being married to her jealous husband Maurice. Paul does not answer Georgette''s displays of affection, and instead introduces himself to Maurice. Back at home, Paul lies about his meeting with the Lalle''s, which confuses Suzanna as Maurice comes over moments later, trying to win her affection and expressing Paul''s kindness. Paul overhears their flirtatious conversation, but pretends to be asleep. Somewhat later, Paul is on his way for a secret meeting with Georgette, when he is suddenly stopped by a police officer for speeding. After insulting the officer, Paul is charged with three days in prison. Suzanna, under the impression that Paul was speeding due to a patient crisis, does not understand why Paul does not gather witnesses to prove that he was speeding because of an emergency. She decides to call up the patient on the phone herself, only to find out that he is dead. Paul goes out to celebrate his death at the Artists Ball with Georgette. As he dresses up for a night out, he convinces Suzanna that he is heading to jail to serve his three-day sentence. While Paul and Georgette are enjoying themselves at a wild party, where they are dancing the Charleston, Maurice visits Suzanna and they grow intimate. They are caught by a detective, who is at the mansion to arrest Paul. Fearing a scandal, Suzanna convinces Maurice to pose as her husband, and he unhappily allows himself to be escorted by the detective. Meanwhile, she overhears through the radio that Paul and Georgette are the winners of a Charleston contest at the Artists Ball. She dresses up and comes over to confront her drunken husband, and tells him that he should be grateful to her for not having to go to jail anymore. They eventually reunite.'
'comedy','Sam Bisbee (W.C. Fields) is a small-town glazier who''s always trying to get rich quick, and his schemes are driving his wife (Marcia Harris) crazy. When he invents an unbreakable glass windshield, his attempt to demonstrate it at a convention of automobile manufacturers is ruined when his car gets switched with another, and instead of bouncing off, the brick he throws at it smashes the windshield to pieces. On the train ride home, Bisbee considers suicide, but instead rescues a pretty young woman (Alice Joyce) who he believe is trying to kill herself. It turns out the woman is really Princess Lescaboura, and their friendship brings social success to the Bisbees.[3][4][5]'
'fantasy','Adolphe Menjou stars as Prince Lucio de Rimanez, who is in fact really Satan assuming a human form. When struggling writer Geoffrey Tempest (Ricardo Cortez) is moved to curse God for his misfortunes, Prince Lucio makes a sudden appearance, informing Tempest that he has inherited a fortune. The only proviso is that Tempest must place his fate entirely in the Prince''s hands. As he ascends to the uppermost rungs of European society, Tempest is ordered by Lucio to marry Russian Princess Olga (Lya De Putti), even though the writer still loves his sweetheart Mavis Claire (Carol Dempster). Eventually, Prince Lucio reveals his true identity, but not before Olga has committed suicide. After rejecting the devil and all his false promises, Tempest lives happily ever after with Mavis.'
'comedy','Paul Bergot (Harry Langdon) is a Belgian immigrant to the United States who has fallen in love with Mary Brown (Priscilla Bonner), a blind woman. They met as pen-pals when he was fighting in Europe during World War I. Mary even sent Paul a photo of her. Paul searches for Mary Brown by asking every woman he meets if she is Mary Brown. By accident he rescues her town from crooks and bootleggers.'
'drama','The story opens in Paris at a masquerade ball where the unhappy Elena (Garbo) meets Manuel Robledo (Antonio Moreno), an Argentine engineer. After removing their masks, they spend the night together in a park and they fall in love under the stars. They declare their love for one another, with Manuel giving her a ring, before departing. The next day when he goes to visit his friend, Marques De Torre Bianca (Armand Kaliz), Manuel is stunned to learn that his wife happens to be Elena. He is disillusioned and upset. Wanting nothing more to do with her, he leaves. At a dinner party, Fontenoy (Marc MacDermott), a middle-aged banker permitted by Bianca to have Elena be his mistress in order for them to be financially secure, distracts the guests by making a startling speech around the table on how Elena, the temptress, has ruined his life and blames her for his financial ruin. As he drains his glass he collapses at the table after taking his drink that was evidently filled with poison. Back at their home, the Marquis, who had encouraged his wife''s affair with Fontenoy, informs Elena that he too is overwhelmed with debt. Distraught over the incident and the departure of Robledo back, she empties her jewel box, giving all that she received from Fontenoy to the Marquis. Robledo arrives to comfort his friend and tell him that he is returning to Argentina. As he is leaving, Elena tries to convince him that she really does love him, but he doesn''t love her and departs quickly. When Robledo returns to Argentina, he receives a difficult reception from the whole town, especially associates Canterac (Lionel Barrymore) & Pirovani (Robert Anderson). We learn that these men have escaped their financial troubles and women back home by traveling to this remote country to spearhead the construction of a dam. Their efforts are being stalled by a local bandit, Manos Duras (Roy D''Arcy), and his men. The Marquis shows up to visit Robledo in Argentina, and he has brought Elena. He tells Robledo he had no choice since she financed the trip. Elena dresses formally for dinner and every other occasion, showing up the local shoeless women and entrancing all the men much to the disdain of Robledo. Manos, who observed her arrival, comes to Robledo’s one evening to serenade Elena. He becomes jealous and he fights Manos to protect her honour. Even though they use whips, with which Manos is a master, Robledo wins. After Manos leaves, Elena tends to Robledo''s wounds, and he denies that his actions were a sign that he loves her. And Manos, still seething from his loss in the fight, returns to shoot Robledo but kills the Marquis instead. Free from marriage, Elena has distracted the men. Robledo''s associates Canterac & Pirovani have even forgotten about their women back home. One night, the town throws a party in her honor, during which Canterac kills Pirovani with his sword over Elena. Manos, who had not lost sight of the larger fight of stopping the foreigners from completing their project, chooses that night to seek his revenge and dynamite the dam, producing some early special effects for 1926. Robledo and the men attempt to repair the damage before it floods. However, they are not successful and a tired, nearly drowned Robledo returns to find Elena. Though at first he tries to kill her, he finds that he cannot and, with his resistance low, he succumbs, declaring that he is beaten and that he does love her. As he sleeps, and though she had insisted to Robledo that she had never used the word "love" with anyone else, she leaves him, with a note telling him that she will not be his ruin. Six years later, the dam is completed and the engineer Robledo is back in Paris being lauded for his success by a crowd of people, with his fiancée on his arm. As they are climbing into a cab, however, Robledo sees a woman in the crowd that he thinks is Elena. He follows her, finding her in a cafe, where he buys her a drink. He is surprised that she doesn''t seem to remember him, and soon leaves. Elena then has a vision, that a man across the cafe is actually Jesus Christ, halo and all. It is then revealed that she has kept Robledo''s ring, the one he had given her that first night they met. She gives it to the man and the film ends with her walking away, alone down the street. In an alternate ending, Robledo spots Elena while at an awards ceremony and the two reconcile.[2]'
'romance','The wealthy matriarch Doña Bernarda Brull (Mattox) is irritated by her son Rafael''s infatuation with the orange farmer''s (Edward Connelly) daughter, Leonora (Garbo). She forbids him to see her, something that causes Leonora great heartache, to say nothing of her family''s financial condition. Using the singing talent cultivated by her wannabe father Pedro, Leonora leaves her humble home to later become a sensation on the stages of Paris, as La Brunna, where nobleman and other rich gentleman express their approval of her "talents". Meanwhile, back in their small Spanish town of Alcira, Valencia where Leonora''s father has died, Doña Bernarda Brull''s domineering influence has brought Rafael to the brink of being elected to office. She''s also arranged for her son to marry the wealthy Remedios Matías (Gertrude Olmstead), the daughter of a rich hog farmer (Mack Swain). However, just before both of these events are realized, La Brunna returns to her humble beginnings to visit her mother Pepa (Lucy Beaumont) and barber friend Cupido (Lucien Littlefield). Incognito, she gives Rafael the impression that she is still poor, and nearly destitute. When the proud soon-to-be-elected official visits Cupido, Leonora reveals that she is the famous La Brunna. Naturally, he is irresistibly drawn to her, which though it doesn''t keep his inevitable election from happening, it does threaten his marriage to Remedios ... that is until his mother intervenes once again. Some time after the flood (the torrent), though not on that particular night, Leonora and Rafael spend a night of passion together amidst the orange groves, Doña Bernarda Brull visits Pepa to tell her of the shame which has been brought upon her home. La Brunna returns to her life on the stage in Madrid while Rafael marries Remedios. Shortly afterwards however, Rafael follows his Leonara to declare his undying love for her once again, seemingly ready to throw away his life for her. She is thrilled and, with her maid (Lillian Leighton), packs her bags to await his return. Rafael''s wise lawyer friend Don Andrés (Tully Marshall) intervenes on behalf of his mother and the community he serves to convince him to do otherwise, and Leonora is alone again. Years pass and a much-older-looking Rafael visits La Brunna, who doesn''t appear to have aged since last they met. This time he is ready to leave his wife and children for her, but she is unwilling to be the cause of it. He returns to his home looking over his sleeping little ones while La Brunna completes another performance with adoring fans. In the end La Brunna sits alone forlornly thinking of love lost as the credits roll.'
'comedy','The film tells of Harry (Langdon) a ne''er-do-well who falls in love with Betty (Crawford), a girl on a billboard.[2] Harry participates in a cross country foot race hoping to win prize money in hopes of marrying her.'
'war','Flagg and Quirt are veteran United States Marines sergeants whose rivalry dates back a number of years. Flagg is commissioned a Captain, he is in command of a company on the front lines of France during World War I. Sergeant Quirt is assigned to Flagg''s unit as the senior non-commissioned officer. Flagg and Quirt quickly resume their rivalry, which this time takes its form over the affections of Charmaine, the daughter of the local innkeeper. However, Charmaine''s desire for a husband and the reality of war give the two men a common cause.'
'western','As a child, Barbara is orphaned when her settler parents perish trying to cross a California desert. She is rescued and raised by Jefferson Worth, who dreams of irrigating the desert. Fifteen years later, Willard Holmes, the chief engineer of a company intent on diverting the Colorado River to do just that, arrives and is smitten with Barbara. However, he has a rival for her affections: local cowboy Abe Lee.'
'comedy','"The little fur-bearing animals that are sacrificed for the vanity of women desiring fur coats have a posthumous revenge." [4]'
'comedy, horror, mystery','In a decaying mansion overlooking the Hudson River, millionaire Cyrus West approaches death. His greedy family descends upon him like "cats around a canary", causing him to become insane. West orders that his last will and testament remain locked in a safe and go unread until the 20th anniversary of his death. As the appointed time arrives, West''s lawyer, Roger Crosby (Tully Marshall), discovers that a second will mysteriously appeared in the safe. The second will may only be opened if the terms of the first will are not fulfilled. The caretaker of the West mansion, Mammy Pleasant (Martha Mattox), blames the manifestation of the second will on the ghost of Cyrus West, a notion that the astonished Crosby quickly rejects. As midnight approaches, West''s relatives arrive at the mansion: nephews Harry Blythe (Arthur Edmund Carewe), Charles "Charlie" Wilder, Paul Jones, his sister Susan Sillsby (Flora Finch) and her niece Cecily Young (Gertrude Astor), and niece Annabelle West. Cyrus West''s fortune is bequeathed to the most distant relative bearing the name West: Annabelle. The will, however, stipulates that to inherit the fortune, she must be judged sane by a doctor, Ira Lazar (Lucien Littlefield). If she is deemed insane, the fortune is passed to the person named in the second will. The fortune includes the West diamonds which her uncle hid years ago. Annabelle realizes that she is now like her uncle, "in a cage surrounded by cats." While the family prepares for dinner, a guard (George Siegmann) barges in and announces that an escaped lunatic called the Cat is either in the house or on the grounds. The guard tells Cecily, "He''s a maniac who thinks he''s a cat, and tears his victims like they were canaries!" Meanwhile, Crosby suspects someone in the family might try to harm Annabelle and decides to inform her of her successor. Before he speaks the person''s name, a hairy hand with long nails emerges from a secret passage in a bookshelf and pulls him in, terrifying Annabelle. When she explains what happened to Crosby, the family immediately concludes that she is insane. Alone in her assigned room, Annabelle examines a note slipped to her which reveals the location of the family jewels, fashioned into an elaborate necklace. She follows the note''s instructions and soon discovers the hiding place, in a secret panel above the fireplace. She retires for the night, wearing the diamond-encrusted necklace and begins to toss and turn. While Annabelle sleeps, the same mysterious hand emerges from the wall behind her bed and snatches the diamonds from her neck. Once again, her sanity is questioned, but as Harry and Annabelle search the room, they discover a hidden passage in the wall and in it the corpse of Roger Crosby. Mammy Pleasant leaves to call the police, while Harry searches for the guard; Susan runs away in hysterics and hitches a ride with a milkman (Joe Murphy). Paul and Annabelle return to her room to search for the missing envelope, and discover that Crosby''s body is missing. Paul vanishes as the secret passage closes behind him. Wandering in the hidden passages, Paul is attacked by the Cat and left for dead. He regains consciousness in time to rescue Annabelle. The police arrive and arrest the Cat, who is Charlie Wilder in disguise; the guard is his accomplice. Wilder is the person named in the second will; he hoped to drive Annabelle insane so that he could receive the inheritance.'
'semi-staged documentary','In the directors'' own words, Chang is a "melodrama with man, the jungle, and wild animals as its cast."[citation needed] Kru, the farmer depicted in the film, battles leopards, tigers, and even a herd of elephants, all of which pose a constant threat to his livelihood. As filmmakers, Cooper and Schoedsack attempted to capture real life with their cameras, though they often re-staged events that had not been captured adequately on film. The danger was real to all the people and animals involved. Tigers, leopards, and bears are slaughtered on camera, while the film''s climax shows Kru''s house being demolished by a stampeding elephant.'
'comedy drama','The plot of the film is drawn from the play Chicago by Maurine Dallas Watkins which was in turn based on the true story of Beulah Annan, fictionalized as Roxie Hart (Phyllis Haver), and her spectacular murder of her boyfriend. The silent film adds considerably to the material in Watkins'' play, some additions based on the original murder, and some for Hollywood considerations. The murder, which occurs in a very brief vignette before the play begins, is fleshed out considerably. Also, Roxie''s husband Amos Hart (played by Victor Varconi) has a much more sympathetic and active role in the film than he does either in the play or in the subsequent musical. The ending is crueler to Roxie, in keeping with Hollywood values of not allowing criminals to profit too much from their crimes (although she does get away with murder).'
'drama','Jean Waddington (Esther Ralston) and Ted Larrabee (Gary Cooper) grew up together in an affluent society, the children of divorced parents. Most of their friends have cynical attitudes towards love and marriage, but Jean and Ted are more serious. In fact, Jean has fallen in love with Ted, who one day proposes marriage. Knowing, however, that Ted''s father was unfaithful to his wife and irresponsible, Jean demands that he prove himself before she accepts his proposal. Soon Ted starts a business and opens up an office in the building where their mutual friend Kitty Flanders (Clara Bow) works. Kitty is also a child of divorce. One evening, Kitty throws a wild party at work, and Ted takes part in the revelry. At the party, Kitty meets Prince Ludovico de Saxe (Einar Hanson) and is immediately attracted to him. The prince returns her affection, but the prince''s guardian Duke Henri de Goncourt (Norman Trevor) prevents them from seeing each other because she is not of their social class. Raised by a mother who insisted that she marry a wealthy man, Kitty soon sets her sights on Ted—even though she knows that Ted and her close friend Jean love each other. One evening, after going on a drunken spree, Kitty tricks Ted into marrying her, even though she does not love him. Desperately unhappy, Ted assures Jean that he will seek a divorce as soon as possible. Not wanting him to repeat the mistakes of their parents, Jean refuses to marry him if he divorces, and sails off for Europe. The arrival of their baby does little for their marriage, and Ted avoids spending any time with his unwanted wife. Sometime later, Kitty and Ted and their child visit the prince, whom Kitty once loved. Kitty remembers her feelings for the prince and dreams of marrying him someday. When she learns that he can never marry a divorced woman for religious reasons, she poisons herself.'
'romantic comedy','In Southern California, Ronald graduates high school as its "most brilliant scholar". At his graduation, Ronald speaks on "the Curse of the Athlete", arguing that books are more important than athletics. Ronald decides to follow Mary, who rejected him because she loves athletes more than bookworms, to Clayton which the dean describes as an "athlete-infested college". Hoping to impress Mary, Ronald tries out for the baseball and track and field teams, but proves to be totally inept. At the same time, he attempts to work as a soda jerk and as a waiter in blackface while trying to keep these jobs a secret from Mary. Eventually the dean asks Ronald why his grades are suffering. After Ronald explains the situation, the dean empathizes with him and orders the rowing coach to make Ronald the coxswain in the upcoming competition. The coach tries to sabotage Ronald by slipping him a sleeping potion so he cannot compete, but the potion is accidentally consumed by the team''s other coxswain instead. Despite Ronald capsizing the boat, pulling the rudder off mid-race, and causing collisions with other boats, the Clayton team wins the race anyway. Meanwhile, Mary starts to appreciate Ronald’s futile efforts to impress her. However, on the day of a competition, Jeff, Mary’s athlete boyfriend, gets kicked out of college and takes her hostage in her room in an effort to get her kicked out also to get her to marry him. In the end, she manages to contact Ronald by telephone, who in a sudden show of athleticism sprints to her dormitory, pole vaults into her window, and fights off Jeff by throwing household objects at him. Mary agrees to marry Ronald and they live the rest of their lives together.'
'romantic comedy','Football player Bob Cantfield enrolls at Carver College, is assigned Jim Halloran as a roommate and lands a date with Sampson Saunders'' attractive sister, Vivian. Jim''s jealousy over Bob''s gridiron and girlfriend successes cause him to trip his teammate deliberately and cause Bob to be injured in a game. Bob is still able to score the touchdown that wins Carver the game, after which Jim''s conscience gets the better of him.'
'drama','Newlywed Carl (Ralph Forbes) goes to war where he endures major suffering. Back home, wife Pauli (Lillian Gish) starves, becomes a prostitute to survive, and their baby dies.'
'comedy','Marion Bright enrolls in college to pursue a handsome young man, Bob, only to discover that he is coach of the women''s basketball team there. Marion joins the team and becomes its star player, but becomes unpopular when she refuses to play a game after a disagreement with Bob. Happily for all, she has a change of heart and returns in time to help the team win the big game.'
'comedy drama','In 1895, champion horse racer and livery stable owner Hank Armstrong (Russell Simpson) is greatly disturbed by the advent of the "horseless carriage" in Maple City. He mocks Elmer Hays, a car manufacturer, when he states in a public lecture that the days of the horse are numbered and that a car will one day go 30 miles an hour. However, Armstrong''s efforts are in vain. He quarrels with his friends when they start purchasing the machines and is only stopped from horsewhipping his own car-mad son Bob (Charles Emmett Mack) by the timely appearance of Bob''s girlfriend Rose Robbins (Patsy Ruth Miller). Bob leaves to find a job in nearby Detroit. There, he is present when famed driver Barney Oldfield (playing himself) breaks the speed record, driving a mile in a minute. Meanwhile, Hank goes bankrupt and has to sell off all his possessions to satisfy his creditors. One day in 1905, Bob returns without telling his father to compete in the first car race in the county. A jealous rival for Rose''s affections convinces Hank to tamper with a car on display so that it will explode. When Bob sends Rose to bring his father to the race, Hank is horrified to discover he has sabotaged his son''s car. They hurry to the track, but are too late. Bob''s car crashes and burns. Hank is convinced he has killed Bob and burns down his livery stable, but Rose brings word that Bob is expected to live. Relieved, Hank gives up his hopeless resistance and joins his son in his car manufacturing company.'
'romance','A baby boy is found abandoned in a Hell''s Kitchen tenement and subsequently is raised by three men: a German delicatessen owner (Sterling), a Jewish tailor (Sidney), and an Irish street cleaner (Cameron). They adopt the boy and raise him as their own. The timeline jumps 20 years into their future. The now-grown Mike (Lyon) resists going to college because he does not wish to be a financial burden to his adoptive fathers, however a pretty Italian girl, Mary (Colbert) working at the delicatessen convinces him to go. Mike enrolls at Yale and gains a reputation as a sports hero. He disavows his three fathers, which leads to the Irishman giving him a thrashing in front of the boy''s best friends. He begins to associate with gamblers and ends up owing them money. To settle his debts, they demand he purposely lose the school''s big rowing match with Harvard. His three fathers and the girl come to support him during the race, and he defies the gamblers and wins the race. His three fathers then come forward to confront and deal with the gamblers.[4]'
'adventure','Captain Robert Kelly (McCoy) while attached to the American Embassy in Peking at the time of the Boxer Rebellion befriends Lady Patricia Rutledge (Windsor) and rescues her from the priests of a Chinese temple that she has gone to visit. He then asks a friend to escort her to safety and battles the Chinese in order to give them time to escape. Eventually he brings news or the approach of the allies to the barricade.[1]'
'romance','Father Adrien (Iván Petrovich), a monk at the Trappist monastery of Notre Dame d''Afrique in Algeria, abandons his vows and escapes to the desert, where he meets and rescues Domini (Alice Terry).'
'crime drama','Southern girl Mary Carlton finds out that her brother, Bob Carlton, is going to the electric chair for a crime he says he did not commit. In order to get her brother exonerated, Mary travels to New York and pretends to be a Chicago gun moll. She wins the love of two gangsters, Handsome Joe and Big Steve Drummond. Joe, it turns out, is not a gangster at all, but an undercover detective. He attempts to help Mary prove her brother''s innocence, and the two of them are caught in a fierce gun battle between the crooks and the cops. They make it through alive (although Drummond gets his due), and Bob is released at the last minute.'
'comedy','The story tells of Harry Howells (Langdon), a recent college graduate who''s madly in love with his sweetheart Ethel (Kingston) and hopes to marry her. His woman hating uncle, however, Fire chief Amos McCarthy (Dent), tells his nephew to avoid marriage because all women want is money. Even though Harry is determined to marry Ethel, it seems his uncle was right: Ethel is a gold-digger. Harry is crestfallen. Her sister, Mary Morgan (Hiatt), however, is very interested in Harry. Still, unhappy, Harry spends the night in the firehouse. That night the fire alarm goes off, and it gives hapless Harry a chance to prove his mettle.'
'romantic comedy','Hula Calhoun (Clara Bow) is the daughter of a Hawaiian planter, Bill Calhoun (Albert Gran). She follows the advice of her uncle Edwin (Agostino Borgato), and follows a simple and natural life, far from social conventions of her family and is considered a "wild child" who wears pants and rides horses.[2] Courted with adoration by Harry Dehan (Arnold Kent), Hula prefers a young British engineer, Anthony Haldane (Clive Brook), who came to the island to oversee the construction of a dam on her father''s property. However, Haldane is already married. At a party, Haldane tries to keep his distance but Hula gets drunk and performs a seductive hula dance for him. She manages to provoke him so much that he promises that he will get a divorce. When his wife, Margaret (Patricia Dupont), appears, Hula makes a deal with one of the foreman to use dynamite to blow up a point on the dam. Thinking that her husband is now ruined, Mrs. Haldane agrees to the divorce, and the two lovers can finally get married.'
'romantic comedy','The film looks at the exploits of chorus girls Marie (Mae Busch) and Helen (Duane Thompson) who have dedicated themselves to finding and marrying millionaire husbands. The two ladies enlist the help of the innocent young Lettie Crane (Jean Arthur) in their scheme. Lettie is a girl from a small town who dreams of one day making it big on Broadway. After being enlisted by the two, Lettie is left heartbroken by a callous young man and regrets her involvement. However, by the film''s end, she is the only one of the trio who finally finds true love. Another chorus girl, Cynthia Kane (Mildred Harris) follows the antics of the trio with both amusement and disapproval.[2]'
'romantic comedy','Spunky shopgirl Betty Lou Spence (Clara Bow) has a crush on her handsome employer, Cyrus Waltham, Jr. (Antonio Moreno), the new manager of and heir to the "world''s largest store". However, they belong to different social classes and he is already romantically linked to blonde socialite Adela Van Norman (Jacqueline Gadsden). But Cyrus''s silly friend Monty (William Austin) notices Betty, and she uses him to get closer to Cyrus. When Betty finally gets Cyrus''s attention, she convinces him to take her on a date to Coney Island, where he is introduced to the proletarian pleasures of roller coasters and hot dogs and has a wonderful time. At the end of the evening he tries to kiss her. She slaps his face and hurries out of his car and into her flat, but then peeks out her window at him as he is leaving. The next day, meddling welfare workers are trying to take away the baby of Betty''s sickly roommate Molly (Priscilla Bonner). To protect her friend, Betty bravely claims that the baby is in fact hers. Unfortunately, this is overheard by Monty, who tells Cyrus. Although he is in love with her, Cyrus offers her an "arrangement" that includes everything but marriage. Shocked and humiliated, Betty Lou refuses, quits her job, and resolves to forget Cyrus. When she learns from Monty about Cyrus''s misunderstanding, she fumes and vows to teach her former beau a lesson. When Cyrus hosts a yachting excursion, Betty Lou makes Monty take her along, masquerading as "Miss Van Cortland". Cyrus at first wants to remove her from the ship, but he cannot long resist Betty Lou''s it factor; he eventually corners her and proposes marriage, but she gets him back, by telling him that she''d "...rather marry his office boy," which accomplishes her goal, but breaks her heart. He then learns the truth about the baby and leaves Monty at the yacht''s helm to find her. Monty crashes the yacht into a fishing boat, tossing both Betty Lou and Adela into the water. Betty Lou saves Adela, punching her in the face when she panics and threatens to drown them both. At the end of the film, she and Cyrus reconcile on the anchor of the yacht, with the first two letters of the ship''s name, Itola, between them. Monty and Adela are upset at losing their friends, but it is implied they pursue a relationship with each other as the film ends.'
'drama','Cantor Rabinowitz wants his son to carry on the generations-old family tradition and become a cantor at the synagogue in the Jewish ghetto of Manhattan''s Lower East Side. But down at the beer garden, thirteen-year-old Jakie Rabinowitz is performing so-called jazz tunes. Moisha Yudelson spots the boy and tells Jakie''s father, who drags him home. Jakie clings to his mother, Sara, as his father declares, "I''ll teach him better than to debase the voice God gave him!" Jakie threatens: "If you whip me again, I''ll run away — and never come back!" After the whipping, Jakie kisses his mother goodbye and, true to his word, runs away. At the Yom Kippur service, Rabinowitz mournfully tells a fellow celebrant, "My son was to stand at my side and sing tonight – but now I have no son." As the sacred Kol Nidre is sung, Jakie sneaks back home to retrieve a picture of his loving mother. About 10 years later, Jakie has changed his name to the more assimilated Jack Robin. Jack is called up from his table at a cabaret to perform on stage. Jack wows the crowd with his energized rendition. Afterward, he is introduced to the beautiful Mary Dale, a musical theater dancer. "There are lots of jazz singers, but you have a tear in your voice," she says, offering to help with his budding career. With her help, Jack eventually gets his big break: a leading part in the new musical April Follies. Back at the family home Jack left long ago, the elder Rabinowitz instructs a young student in the traditional cantorial art. Jack appears and tries to explain his point of view, and his love of modern music, but the appalled cantor banishes him: "I never want to see you again — you jazz singer!" As he leaves, Jack makes a prediction: "I came home with a heart full of love, but you don''t want to understand. Some day you''ll understand, the same as Mama does." Two weeks after Jack''s expulsion from the family home and 24 hours before opening night of April Follies on Broadway, Jack''s father falls gravely ill. Jack is asked to choose between the show and duty to his family and faith: in order to sing the Kol Nidre for Yom Kippur in his father''s place, he will have to miss the big premiere. That evening, the eve of Yom Kippur, Yudleson tells the Jewish elders, "For the first time, we have no Cantor on the Day of Atonement." Lying in his bed, weak and gaunt, Cantor Rabinowitz tells Sara that he cannot perform on the most sacred of holy days: "My son came to me in my dreams—he sang Kol Nidre so beautifully. If he would only sing like that tonight—surely he would be forgiven." As Jack prepares for a dress rehearsal by applying blackface makeup, he and Mary discuss his career aspirations and the family pressures they agree he must resist. Sara and Yudleson come to Jack''s dressing room to plea for him to come to his father and sing in his stead. Jack is torn. He delivers his blackface performance ("Mother of Mine, I Still Have You"), and Sara sees her son onstage for the first time. She has a tearful revelation: "Here he belongs. If God wanted him in His house, He would have kept him there. He''s not my boy anymore—he belongs to the whole world now." Afterward, Jack returns to the Rabinowitz home. He kneels at his father''s bedside and the two converse fondly: "My son—I love you." Sara suggests that it may help heal his father if Jack takes his place at the Yom Kippur service. Mary arrives with the producer, who warns Jack that he''ll never work on Broadway again if he fails to appear on opening night. Jack can''t decide. Mary challenges him: "Were you lying when you said your career came before everything?" Jack is unsure if he even can replace his father: "I haven''t sung Kol Nidre since I was a little boy." His mother tells him, "Do what is in your heart, Jakie—if you sing and God is not in your voice — your father will know." The producer cajoles Jack: "You''re a jazz singer at heart!" At the theater, the opening night audience is told that there will be no performance. Jack sings the Kol Nidre in his father''s place. His father listens from his deathbed to the nearby ceremony and speaks his last, forgiving words: "Mama, we have our son again." The spirit of Jack''s father is shown at his side in the synagogue. Mary has come to listen. She sees how Jack has reconciled the division in his soul: "a jazz singer—singing to his God." "The season passes—and time heals—the show goes on." Jack, as "The Jazz Singer," is now appearing at the Winter Garden theater, apparently as the featured performer opening for a show called Back Room. In the front row of the packed theater, his mother sits alongside Yudleson. Jack, in blackface, performs the song "My Mammy" for her and for the world.'
'comedy','The Hickorys are a respected family in Hickoryville. Sheriff Jim and his big, strong sons Leo and Olin have little respect for the youngest son, Harold, who does not have their muscles. When Jim, Leo and Olin go to an important town meeting to discuss a dam, Harold is left behind. He puts on his father''s gun and badge and is mistaken for the sheriff by "Flash" Farrell, who runs a traveling medicine show for Mary after the death of her father. Farrell talks Harold into signing a permit to let him, strongman Sandoni and dancer Mary perform. Later, Mary tries to avoid the unwanted attentions of Sandoni and encounters Harold. They are attracted to each other. When Jim finds out that Harold authorized the medicine show, he orders his son to shut down the performance. Harold tries, but Farrell makes a fool of him, then has him tied up. Harold''s sworn enemy, Hank Hooper, pelts him and accidentally starts a fire that consumes the medicine show wagon. Harold invites Mary to spend the night in the family home. Jim is asleep, so Harold cannot get his permission; Harold has to use his wits to overcome the opposition of his brothers. However, Mrs. Hooper and her son Hank show up and take Mary with them, as it would not be decent for Mary to spend the night in a house without "womenfolk". The next day is a town celebration, where Jim is supposed to turn over to a state official the funds raised by the residents to help build the dam. However, the money is gone. Jim strongly suspects Farrell and Sandoni of being responsible, but Sam Hooper accuses him of the theft and refuses to let him go after them. Jim sends Leo and Olin, but not Harold, after them. When they return empty-handed, Jim allows himself to be tied up. There is talk of lynching. Harold confesses to Mary that he is not the person he pretended to be, but she tells him she has faith in him. Then Hank accuses her of being in on the robbery. Harold fights back when some men grab her, only to have Hank knock him out and set him adrift in a rowboat. He awakens after the boat reaches an abandoned, beached ship. Aboard he finds the real thieves. Sandoni disposes of Farrell after they argue over the division of the loot. Then the strongman spots Harold and chases him all over the ship. Eventually, Harold subdues Sandoni and races back to town with his prisoner and the money to save his father. An impressed Jim tells him, "Son, you''re a real Hickory." As Harold and Mary walk away, they encounter Hank. Harold musters the courage to fight his longtime nemesis and beats him up.'
'biblical drama','We see Mary Magdalene, here portrayed as a wild courtesan, entertain many men around her. Upon learning that Judas is with a carpenter she rides out on her chariot drawn by zebras to get him back. Peter is introduced as the Giant apostle, and we see the future gospel writer Mark as a child who is healed by Jesus. Mary, the mother of Jesus, is shown as a beautiful and saintly woman who is a mother to all her son''s followers. Our first sight of Jesus is through the eyesight of a little girl, whom he heals. He is surrounded by a halo. Mary Magdelene arrives afterwards and talks to Judas, who reveals that he is only staying with Jesus in hopes of being made a high official after Jesus becomes the king of kings. Jesus casts the Seven Deadly Sins out of Mary Magdalene in a multiple exposure sequence. Jesus is also shown resurrecting Lazarus and healing the little children. Some humor is derived when one girl asks if he can heal broken legs, and, when he says yes, she gives him a legless doll. Jesus smiles and repairs the doll. The crucifixion is foreshadowed when Jesus, having helped a poor family, wanders through the father''s carpentry shop, and, himself a carpenter''s son, he briefly helps carve a piece of wood. When a sheet covering the object is removed, it is revealed to be a cross towering over Jesus. Jesus and his apostles enter Jerusalem, where Judas incites the people and rallies them to proclaim Jesus King of the Jews. Jesus, however, renounces all claims of being an Earthly king. Caiaphas the High Priest is also angry at Judas for having led people to a man whom he sees as a false prophet. Meanwhile, Jesus drives away Satan, who had offered him an Earthly kingdom, and he protects a woman caught in adultery. The words he draws in the sand are revealed to be the sins the accusers themselves committed. Judas, desperate to save himself from Caiaphas, agrees to turn over Jesus. Noticeably at the Last Supper, when Jesus distributes the bread and wine saying that they are his body and blood, Judas refuses to eat. Judas puts the cup to his lips but refuses to drink; he tears off a piece of bread but lets it drop to the ground. Towards the end, Mary confronts her son and tells him to flee from the danger that is coming. Jesus replies that it must be done for the salvation of all peoples. They leave the room but the camera focuses on the table upon which a dove alights for a moment. Jesus goes to the Garden of Gethsemane where he is soon captured by the Roman soldiers and betrayed by Judas. Judas'' life is saved, but, upon seeing that Jesus is going to be killed as a result, he is horrified. Judas takes a rope that the Romans had used to bind Jesus'' wrists and runs off. Jesus is beaten and then presented by Pontius Pilate to the crowd. Mary pleads for the life of her son and Mary Magdalene speaks for him but Caiaphas bribes the crowd to shout against Jesus. Jesus is taken away to be crucified, though he pauses on the Via Dolorosa to heal a group of cripples in an alley, despite his weakened condition. Jesus is crucified and his enemies throw insults at him. (One woman even anachronistically eats popcorn and smiles with glee at Jesus'' crucifixion.) When Jesus does die, however, a great earthquake comes up. The tree where Judas had hanged himself, with the rope used to bind Jesus''s wrists, is swallowed up amidst gouts of hellfire. The sky turns black, lightning strikes, the wind blows, the people who had mocked Jesus run in terror, and the veil covering the Holy of Holies in the Jerusalem Temple is torn in two. The tumult ends when Mary looks up at heaven and asks God to forgive the world for the death of their son. The chaos ends and the Sun shines. Jesus is taken down from the cross and is buried. On the third day, he rises from the dead as promised. To emphasize the importance of the resurrection, this scene from an otherwise black and white film is shot in color. Jesus goes to the Apostles and tells them to spread his message to the world. He tells them "I am with you always" as the scene shifts to a modern city to show that Jesus still watches over his followers. Many of the film''s intertitles are quotes (or paraphrases) from Scripture, often with chapter and verse accompanying.'
'drama','When a successful prizefighter known as "Killer" Agerra causes trouble in a nightclub, a New Jersey mill worker, Dundee Reilly, knocks him out. This impresses both Pat Malone, an ex-boxer, and Pat''s attractive sister Mary, who takes a liking to Reilly. Reilly becomes a boxer under Pat''s tutelage, but is framed for a crime and ends up serving nearly a year behind bars. When he gets out, Agerra''s opponent in an upcoming fight drops out, so Pat Malone arranges for "Knockout" Reilly to be his replacement in the ring. Agerra is much too good for him. Reilly is on the verge of being knocked out when Mary Malone visits his corner and tells him it was Agerra who framed him and caused him to go to jail. A newly motivated Reilly knocks his foe flat.'
'comedy','A girl travelling by train to meet her boyfriend meets another young man and falls in love with him.'
'thriller','In a cultured and peaceful home on the outskirts of London,[9] the head of the household, Sir Roger Balfour, is found dead from what initially appears to be a self-inflicted bullet wound, despite the insistence of Balfour''s friend and neighbour, Sir James Hamlin, that his old friend would never have taken his own life. Nonetheless, Balfour''s death is officially declared a suicide by Inspector Edward C. Burke of Scotland Yard.[9][10][11] Five years later, with the case still unresolved, a sinister-looking man with pointed teeth wearing a Beaver-skin top hat, arrives at the household accompanied by a cadaverous-looking woman in a long gown; the arrival of these two individuals prompts Sir James Hamlin, the friend and neighbour of the late Roger Balfour, to call Scotland Yard. This in turn prompts Inspector Burke to travel to the household, where he discovers that three individuals now present in the household had been the only three who had been present five years previously when Roger Balfour had died. Initially, Burke remains sceptical that any of these three individuals (Balfour''s daughter, Lucille, his butler Williams, and Arthur Hibbs,[12] the nephew/secretary of the neighbour who had placed the call to Scotland Yard) may have been involved in his murder, until Balfour''s body disappears from its tomb and an individual looking distinctly like him is seen around the old Balfour estate. This, in addition to other eerie acts such as instances of singular gunshots being heard in Roger Balfour''s former bedroom occurring in the household while Burke is there and the sinister-looking Man in the Beaver Hat repeatedly terrifying those within the household, prompts him to determine to identify Balfour''s killer by reproducing the former crime scene and using hypnosis to induce the culprit into re-enacting the murder.[10][11][13][13][13][13]'
'comedy','The silent tells the story of Harry Shelby (Langdon) who has been kept in knee-pants for years by his mother. One day, however, Harry finally gets his first pair of long pants. Immediately, his family expects him to marry his childhood sweetheart Priscilla (Priscilla Bonner). Yet, Harry soon falls for Bebe Blair (Alma Bennett), a femme fatale from the big city who has a boyfriend in the mob. Harry thinks that Bebe is interested in him as well, so he risks everything when Bebe ends up in jail. This leads to a lot of trouble for Harry. Throughout the whole ordeal Priscilla waits for Harry to face reality.'
'drama','The film depicts a young woman (Swanson) granted the ability to see into her future, including her future with different men.'
'romantic comedy','The film starts out at The Merrill Department store where a very exhausted stockgirl named Maggie Johnson (Mary Pickford) is given a moment to attend to the sales counter. There she encounters a charming handsome man who pretends to be interested in purchasing some children''s toys but, after many humorous demonstrations by Maggie, the manager comes over and gives the man his time card. The man is said to be Joe Grant (Buddy Rogers) though in reality he is the son of the owner; making him Joseph Merrill. To prove to his father he is ready for his engagement, he has taken the job of stockboy under an assumed name. Annoyed, Maggie takes Joe back to the stockroom and tells him to get to work. He is so inept that she calls him, ''The Dumbest Stockboy in the World'' though she promises to take him under her wing, much to his amusement. A few days later, after her shift, Maggie is outside waiting for Joe. She appears to have a crush on him. Some of her coworkers tease her but eventually warn her that Joe is coming, causing Maggie to hop on her ride home from work: the back of an open truck. Joe is swarmed with salesgirls who try for his attention causing him to not focus on Maggie. Determined Maggie throws her bag on the ground as the vehicle pulls away. Joe picks it up and chases the truck down to give it to her. After three more times of this, he finally grows weary and jumps in the truck to join Maggie, who feigns innocence. The two flirt and Maggie shows him pictures of her off-kilter family. Once they reach her home, she invites him in for supper only to find her family is causing a commotion. Her father (Lucien Littlefield) is an elderly postal worker who is meek and easily subdued. Her mother (Sunshine Hart) is a dramatic woman who enjoys going to random funerals and makes frequent use of smelling salts to avoid fainting. Her sister Liz (Carmelita Geraghty) is a flapper who has a boyfriend who gets her into trouble. Maggie does her best to hide the goings on but eventually caves and sends Joe on his way hoping to have dinner with him another day. Time passes and Joe''s mother is planning his engagement announcement party. However she has not mentioned it to him, hoping to make it a surprise. Joe has been promoted and is now Maggie''s boss. However, he still eats lunch with her every day in the stockroom. During one such lunch, after receiving the note to join his parents for dinner (for the surprise party), Maggie gives him a watch for his birthday. He is touched and puts it on. Shortly after this he accidentally catches his sleeve on a nail. Trying to pull himself free, he accidentally puts his arm around Maggie, and after the mutual surprise the two kiss. Enamored with each other they head out on the town to walk in the rain. Joe begins to spend money and she tells him he''ll end up in the poorhouse. Joe offers to buy her dinner at a nice restaurant but, embarrassed by her shoddy work clothes, Maggie declines. Joe gets the idea to tell her they should follow the store''s company motto, "We''re all a family" and that, if they were family, they could eat at the Merrill Mansion. Maggie, thinking he is joking, agrees. Meanwhile, her sister is arrested because of her association with her boyfriend, and is taken to night court. Her family frets at not being able to find Maggie, who they believe needs to help Liz out of the mess. Maggie had tried to call them, but after a few rings (while her father made his way to the phone) she hung up. Arriving at the Merrill Mansion, Maggie is amazed that it is the real deal. Joe is amused with her reluctance but eventually gets her into the mansion, much to the butler''s amusement. Maggie is extremely reluctant until Joe convinces the butler to say ''a Merrill employee eats here almost every night!'' Maggie relaxes and tells Joe they should pretend to be Mr. and Mrs. Merrill. Joe is extremely amused by this, and at her lack of formal dinner habits. At the surprise engagement party, Joe''s family sits concerned. They return home to find Joe and Maggie, who has hidden under the table. Joe admits he is ''Joseph Merrill'' but before he can explain further his fiancee (Avonne Taylor) arrives and kisses him in front of Maggie. Maggie, heartbroken leaves. Joe, upset, tells his fiancee he had broken Maggie''s heart and must go after her. Maggie walks and walks until she returns to where Joe and her shared a moment which happens to be by the night court. She sees her family arrive and after they chasten her they enter the court to try to save Liz from prison. Meanwhile Joe arrives at the same spot only to be helped by a homeless man who had watched their interactions. Joe enters the court to hear Maggie''s passionate plea for her sister, whom the judge eventually lets go. While Maggie fetches water for her ''on the verge of fainting'' mother, Joe walks over to Maggie and apologizes, saying he did not love his fiancee and would not marry her. He then proposes to Maggie which causes (for a change) her sister to faint. While everyone tries to revive Liz, Liz''s boyfriend makes a remark to her father about Maggie ''taking up with the Merrill boy'' implying that it was only for sex. Joe, offended, punches him and begins to fight in the courtroom. The next day, Maggie is back home, reading the paper which has headlines about their romance. Joe''s father (Hobart Bosworth) arrives at the home. He tells Maggie he wants to send his son to Hawaii until the scandal blew over, which Joe agreed to. However, Joe apparently made plans to bring Maggie as well and marry on the boat. Mr. Merrill, not happy with this, tries to buy Maggie off with a check for $10,000 just as Joe arrives, unaware his father is there. Joe tells Maggie his plans and she becomes upset. Angry, she begins a whole tirade against him trying to find out if he really loved her or not. She begins to claim she is just a jazz girl and knew who he was all along. That she was a gold digger and just after his money and, thanks to his father, she now had what she wanted. She even plays a jazz record and puts on lipstick in an attempt to prove her point. Joe begins to cry, and Maggie, touched, breaks down and admits that none of it is true and the real reason she cannot go away with him is because of her family (who had been listening in the living room the whole time) who needs her more than he does. Her father becomes livid and declares it was time ''he became the father of the family'' and takes charge of his wife and daughters. In a comedic scene he commands everyone (including both Merrills) to pack Maggie''s things for the ship which leaves in ten minutes. After an extreme car ride, the couple barely make it to the departing boat. Once boarded, the father realizes he never gave Maggie her suitcase. He tries to throw the suitcase onto the boat, but it ends up in the ocean. The couple waves goodbye and eventually get crowded back from view. When the crowd leaves, we see the couple kissing.'
'comedy','Tina (Marion Davies) is the drudge of the Red Mill Tavern in Holland. She works hard and long hours, with her only company being a mouse, named Ignatz. Willem (George Siegmann) is the mean Tavern proprietor who catches her feeding the mouse. He is outraged and scares away the mouse and takes it out on Tina. Dennis Wheat (Owen Moore) is a foreigner who came to the Netherlands for the damsels. He was accompanied by his valet Caesar Rinkle (Snitz Edwards). One day, Tina notices and immediately falls in love with him. She sneaks out of the tavern to be closer to him and hears him saying he will judge an ice skating race. The winner of the race will be kissed by him. Tina decides to enter and wins. When Dennis is about to kiss her, Willem storms out and takes Tina with him. She later finds out Dennis is leaving town and becomes sad. Tina goes back to her hard working days and fantasizes about Dennis returning. Dennis returns in the spring and takes an interest in the Burgomaster''s daughter Gretchen (Louise Fazenda), who is about to marry the Governor (William Orlamond) but actually is in love with Captain Jacop Van Goop (Karl Dane). Jacop sends Gretchen a letter, begging her to elope with him at night. Gretchen has to cross her overprotecting father if she wants to leave the house, and does not think there is any chance she will be able to leave the house. Tina, however, helps her escape successfully by dressing up like her and Gretchen dressing up like Tina. After Gretchen has left, Dennis sneaks into the house to meet the woman he noticed. He kisses Tina, thinking it is Gretchen. Gretchen goes back home when she is scared after Tina''s mouse ran into her shoe. Meanwhile, Caesar overhears someone saying Gretchen will inherit her grandfather''s estate the day she marries and immediately informs Dennis. Jacop climbs on a ladder leading to Gretchen''s room to reunite with her. Dennis sees this and thinks Jacop is kissing the same girl he kissed. He is mad and throws a stone to him, making him fall off his ladder through the window of the tavern. Tina comes up, still dressed up as Gretchen, and tells Dennis Jacop was a relative and it was only a formal kiss. She promises to elope with him in the morning. The next day, Gretchen is forced to marry the governor. She begs Tina to save her, before she leaves with her father. Tina eventually scares everyone away with her mouse, and sneaks off with Gretchen. Gretchen is soon reunited with Jacop, but Tina is left being chased by both the wedding guests and the burgomaster. Willem finds her hiding in the tavern and locks her up in a mill, which is rumored to be haunted by ghosts. Tina is scared, but Dennis comes after her and protects himself with a gun. An accident causes him to shoot Tina in the back. They kiss and are happy, but find out Willem is after them with a shotgun. Dennis and Tina escape through a window and can now finally love each other carefree.'
'drama','Katyusha, a country girl, is seduced and abandoned by Prince Dimitry. Dimitry finds himself, years later, on a jury trying the same Katyusha for a crime he now realizes his actions drove her to. He follows her to imprisonment in Siberia, intent on redeeming her and himself as well.[1]'
'drama','Serafina (Marceline Day) is captured by Don Balthasar (Roy D''Arcy)''s pirates on a Caribbean island, when José Armando (Ramon Novarro) arrives from Spain to the rescue.'
'comedy','During World War I an entertainer named Greg Lee (Arthur) gets drafted as a private and gets pitted against a tough Drill Sergeant Diggs ( Dane). Private Lee does everything he can to annoy Sergeant Diggs thinking it will get him thrown out of the Army. Both men have their sights set on the pretty Betty Wayne (Day) and the two men find themselves set adrift in a reconnaissance balloon.'
'race film','While practicing piano, Alvin sees Louise being beaten by Spike, and he rescues her and then brings her back to Lucretia’s house. Lucretia, the owner of the boarding house where Alvin is residing, allows Louise to stay in return for chores around the house. Eddie meets with Spike, who has a black eye after the incident, and the former attempts to convince Spike to let Louise work as an entertainer for him. Spike doesn’t seem enthusiastic and shows regret for beating her, which he later credits to his alcoholism. Spike has some desire to allow his daughter to escape the kind of life he is stuck in, but he is unable to change any of his actions without being sucked into his old lifestyle by the alcohol supplied by Eddie. Eddie learns the truth about the confrontation between Alvin and Spike during dinner at Lucretia’s. Later in the evening, Eddie forcefully attempts to bring Louise back to her “old pappy” but again Alvin intervenes. Drunk again from Eddie’s liquor, Spike continues to harass Louise who contemplates suicide if it continues. Alvin proposes to Louise after rescuing her again from the altercation, claiming that she wouldn’t need to worry about harm if they were married. After he defends Louise from Eddie at Lucretia’s house, Alvin exclaims, “I’ll teach you to treat our women like that!” Over more alcohol, Eddie schemes with Spike to distract Alvin with a fake telegram announcing his mother’s illness while they kidnap Louise. Alvin cannot take Louise with him because he hasn’t informed his mother of their marriage, which she would not have approved of because of her concern with class. Louise laments in life and finds a letter from Alvin’s mother urging him to marry another woman who is “part of our set,” referring to the same level in social stratification. She proceeds to rip the letter and then the marriage certificate. Before they go through with the plan, Spike once again hesitates, remarking that she is better off away from people like him. Alvin comes back to confront Eddie after learning he had been tricked, and that his mother was visiting friends out of town. The scene is cut between Alvin''s being in the car in the suburbs and Louise''s tearing up mementos of their marriage. Eddie breaks into the house and entices Louise with far-fetched possibilities of becoming rich. As Alvin enters and guns are pulled, someone accidentally shoots Louise in the neck leaving a scar. Louise becomes involved with Eddie''s gambling while Alvin is in prison. Eddie refers to Alvin as a “dicty sap” which insults his ambitions to move up the rungs of the class system. Alvin escapes prison by filing the bars in his cell and re-establishes himself as a music instructor with a false name. Alvin falls in love with his student, Alice, but “lives a daily lie” because he has hidden the secrets of his past. Louise is involved with Alice’s father so Alvin meets her after dropping an urgent note to Alice’s father. Alice’s father unknowingly pairs the two together for a dance. Later that night, Louise makes advances on Alvin, threatening to expose him, and he gives in for a moment but in a later scene Alvin rejects her and leaves. In distress, Louise kills herself after writing a revealing letter of repentance and apology. In it she confesses that it was really Eddie who shot her neck, and he wouldn’t allow her to tell the truth during the trial. Alvin feels compelled to inform Alice and her family about his secrets after hearing of Louise’s death, and they forgive him. The lament of Alice’s father mirrors the earlier foreword in blaming the environment and Louise’s lack of education, finishing with the statement: “our people have much to learn.”'
'drama','Cock Robin (John Gilbert) is a sideshow barker in Budapest. He also participates in one of the acts; his former girlfriend Salome (Renée Adorée) dances before Herod in exchange for the head of "Jokanaan". As Jokanaan, Robin has his head seemingly chopped off and presented to the dancer on a platter, much to the delight of the audience. Salome wants to get back together with Robin, but he has his sights set on Lena (Gertrude Short), the daughter of a well-off sheep merchant. He lets the smitten Lena buy him things. The Greek (Lionel Barrymore), Salome''s current boyfriend, becomes angered when he learns of her feelings. The Greek and his henchman, the Ferret, also try to steal Lena''s father''s money, but fail to find it after they murder him. That night, a heartbroken Lena tells Robin that her father has been killed. She trustingly shows him the substantial amount of money she had been holding for her father; when Robin ascertains that she has no brothers and that she has many more sheep, he becomes very interested. However, Salome eavesdrops, bursts in and warns Lena that Robin is only after her for her wealth. Lena flees, without her money. Robin is furious and can barely restrain himself from beating Salome. When Lena shows up at the sideshow with a policeman, Salome has Robin hide in her attic. One day, an old blind man (Edward Connelly), another resident of the building, comes to Salome to have her read to him another letter from his son; Salome tells him that the man has been promoted to captain and received a decoration. She assures the old man that his son will return someday with his regiment. Later, however, she reveals to Robin that the son is actually in the prison across the street, scheduled to be hanged the next morning. That morning, the old man hears voices in Salome''s room and assumes his son has finally come home. Bursting with joy, he mistakes Robin for his son and takes him to his room, where he puts on his old uniform. Then, just after his real son is executed, he passes away. The Greek first tries to rid himself of his romantic rival by taking the place of the "executioner" and using a real sword to lop of Robin''s head, but Salome sees through his disguise and stops him. When Robin goes into hiding, the Greek steals another sideshow attraction, a poisonous lizard, and plants it in Salome''s attic. An official calls on Salome to inform her that she can claim her brother''s possessions at the prison; Robin then realizes that the old man was her father. Thoroughly ashamed of himself, Robin reconciles with her. However, the official had spotted him hiding behind the door. When a policeman comes to arrest him, Robin hides in the attic, where the Greek has also been trapped. In the ensuing scuffle, the Greek is bitten by the lizard. Robin takes the money from his dead body and gives it to the policeman. For returning it voluntarily, Robin is let off. He and Salome return to the sideshow. When next they perform the act, she kisses him while his head is on the platter.'
'romance','Haines plays a shipping clerk named Jack Kelly. He neglected golf to work for the aging Mr. Waters (George Fawcett). On one day, Mr. Waters fires Pop Kelly (Bert Woodruff). Jack witnesses this and is outraged. He wants revenge and breaks a window with a golf ball. Mr. Waters catches him but, instead of being mad, he is impressed with Jack''s golfing skills. He later that day announces to his dad he is invited by The Oakmont Country Club to be a guest of the club for a minimum of two weeks. His role there will be the teacher of Mr. Waters, trying to teach him how to golf. Pop doesn''t want to say goodbye, but lets him go. At the club, he meets Allie Monte (Joan Crawford) and immediately falls in love with her. He introduces himself as a member from the shipping business of her family. However, Allie sees through him and walks away. Harold Johnson (Edward Earle) is the club champion and devotes himself to Allie. He tries to get her attention at a game, but she is not charmed with his presence. Over the days, the members – including Allie – become more pleased with Jack as he teaches everyone how to golf. Jack and Allie bond with each other. Johnson feels intimidated by Jack, fearing he could take over the championship title and his girl. Jack kisses Allie, but she storms off. He tries to apologize, but she refuses to talk to him. Therefore he climbs into her room, staying there until she forgives him. The next day, Jack sets a record with the golf tournament. While giving his victory speech, he notices his father, who came there to tell his son how proud he is of him. Jack realizes his club membership is almost over and swears he will marry a rich girl, which would make him allowed to stay at the club. He decides to propose to Allie, but she informs him her father has just lost all of his money. She admits she now has to marry a wealthy man to keep her social position. They are interrupted by Martha Lomsdom (Eileen Percy), who invites them to a party. On their way, Jack sees Allie is flirting with Johnson, so he does the same with the wealthy Martha. At the party, Johnson announces he and Allie are engaged. Jack is devastated, but Martha sees an opportunity in luring him. Her beau confronts her, but she responds she is willing to leave him for Jack. Jack now admits he is not the person to marry for money. When he meets up with Allie to say goodbye, he realizes he can''t live without her and tells her he loves her. Allie admits she loves him too, but reminds him she is already engaged to Johnson. They decide to run off and marry. Allie tells her dad Jack is a millionaire shipping man. Jack is afraid to tell her the truth about his income. But when he does, she throws him out. Her family tells her it''s a good riddance and she should get an annulment. Allie however refuses, stating he is her husband. In the final scene, Jack becomes rich with winning a golf tournament and is reunited with Allie.'
'romantic comedy','Young Crown Prince Karl Heinrich (Philippe De Lacy), heir to the kingdom of Karlsburg, is brought to live with his stern uncle, King Karl VII (Gustav von Seyffertitz). The king immediately dismisses the boy''s nanny (Edythe Chapman) without telling the youngster to avoid an emotional farewell. Fortunately, Dr. Friedrich Jüttner (Jean Hersholt), his new tutor, proves to be sympathetic, and they become lifelong friends. Nonetheless, despite the commoners'' belief that it must be wonderful to be him, the boy grows up lonely, without playmates his own age. Upon passing his high school examination in 1901 with the help of Dr.Jüttner, the young prince (Ramón Novarro) is delighted to learn that both he and Jüttner are being sent to Heidelberg, where he will continue his education. When they arrive, Karl''s servant is appalled at the rooms provided for the prince and Jüttner at the inn of Ruder (Otis Harlan). When Ruder''s niece Kathi (Norma Shearer) stoutly defends the centuries-old family business, Karl is entranced by her, and decides to stay. He is quickly made a member of Corps Saxonia, a student society. Later that day, Karl tries to kiss Kathi, only to learn that she is engaged. Her family approves of her fiance, but she is not so sure about him. She eventually confesses to Karl that, despite the vast social gulf between them, she has fallen in love with him. Karl feels the same about her and swears that he will let nothing separate them. When he takes her boating, their rower, Johann Kellermann, turns his back to them to give them some privacy. Karl jokingly tells him that, when he is king, he will make Kellermann his majordomo. Then Jüttner receives a letter from the king ordering him to inform Karl that he has selected a princess for him to marry. Jüttner cannot bring himself to destroy his friend''s happiness. That same day, however, Prime Minister von Haugk (Edward Connelly) arrives with the news that the king is seriously ill, and that Karl must go home and take up the reins of government. When Karl sees his uncle, he is told of the matrimonial plans. While Karl is still reeling from the shock, the old king dies, followed by Jüttner. Later, von Haugk presses the new monarch about the marriage. The anguished Karl signs the document for the wedding. Then Kellermann shows up to take the job Karl had offered him. When Karl asks him about Kathi, he learns that she is still waiting for him. He goes to see her one last time. In the last scene, Karl is shown riding through the streets in a carriage with his bride. One onlooker remarks that it must be wonderful to be king, unaware of Karl''s misery.'
'melodrama','A vacationing Woman from the City (Margaret Livingston) lingers in a lakeside town for weeks. After dark, she goes to a farmhouse where the Man (George O''Brien) and the Wife (Janet Gaynor) live with their child. She whistles from the fence outside. The Man is torn, but finally departs, leaving his wife with the memories of better times when they were deeply in love. The man and woman meet in the moonlight and kiss passionately. She wants him to sell his farm—which has not done well recently—to join her in the city. When she suggests that he solve the problem of his wife by drowning her, he throttles her violently, but even that dissolves in a passionate embrace. The Woman gathers bundles of reeds so that when the boat is overturned, the Man can stay afloat. The Wife suspects nothing when her husband suggests going on an outing, but when they set off across the lake, she soon grows suspicious. He prepares to throw her overboard, but when she pleads for his mercy, he realizes he cannot do it. He rows frantically for shore, and when the boat reaches land, the Wife flees. She boards a trolley, and he follows, begging her not to be afraid of him. The trolley brings them to the city. Her fear and disappointment are overwhelming. He plies her with flowers and cakes and finally she stops crying and accepts his gifts. Emerging back on the street, they are touched to see a bride enter a church for her processional, and follow her inside to watch the wedding. The Man breaks down and asks her to forgive him. After a tearful reconciliation, they continue their adventure in the city, having their photograph taken together and visiting a funfair. As darkness falls, they board the trolley for home. Soon they are drifting back across the lake under the moonlight. A sudden storm causes their boat to begin sinking. The Man remembers the two bundles of reeds he placed in the boat earlier and ties the bundles around the Wife. The boat capsizes, and the Man awakes on a rocky shore. He gathers the townspeople to search the lake, but all they find is a broken bundle of reeds floating in the water. Convinced the Wife has drowned, the grief-stricken Man stumbles home. The Woman From the City goes to his house, assuming their plan has succeeded. The Man begins to choke her. Then the Maid calls to him that his wife is alive, so he releases the Woman and runs to the Wife, who survived by clinging to one last bundle of reeds. The Man kneels by the Wife''s bed as she slowly opens her eyes. The Man and the Wife kiss, while the Woman From the City''s carriage rolls down the hill toward the lake, and the film dissolves to the sunrise.'
'comedy adventure','During the First World War, two American soldiers become trapped in no man''s land. Expecting to die, W. Dangerfield Phelps III (William Boyd) decides to fulfill his fondest desire: to beat up his sergeant since training camp, Peter O''Gaffney (Louis Wolheim). While they are brawling, the Germans sneak up and capture them. In a German prison camp, the two become friends when Phelps takes responsibility for an unflattering caricature he drew of a guard, rather than let O''Gaffney take the blame. The two escape, stealing the white robes of Arab prisoners to blend in with the snow. However, they encounter (and are forced to join) a group of similarly garbed Arab prisoners being sent by train to Constantinople. Near the end of their journey, Phelps creates a distraction, and the two men jump off, landing in a hay wagon. When the hay is loaded onto a ship bound for Arabia, so are they. The stowaways are discovered, but the skipper (Michael Visaroff) is satisfied when Phelps pays him their fare. When a small boat founders nearby, Phelps jumps in to try to rescue an Arabian woman, Mirza (Mary Astor). Both he and the woman have to be saved by O''Gaffney. The two soldiers and the skipper vie for the veiled woman''s affections. Phelps eventually coaxes her into removing her veil, and is entranced by her beauty. Meanwhile, the woman''s escort observes this development with disapproval. The skipper insists on being paid for Mirza''s fare, but none of the three have any money left. They hold him off as best they can. When they reach their destination, the skipper refuses to let Mirza debark without paying, so O''Gaffney robs the purser (Boris Karloff) to get the money. Mirza is met by Shevket Ben Ali (Ian Keith); Mirza informs Phelps that her father has arranged for her to marry Shevket. They depart. The Americans jump overboard when the skipper discovers what happened to his purser. The two men head for the American consul, but leave hastily without speaking to him when they find the skipper already there lodging a complaint. They decide to seek the assistance of Mirza''s father the Emir, who turns out to be the governor of the region. However, Mirza''s escort has told him and Shevket that Phelps has seen her without her veil. Outraged, the Emir sends his men to bring the Americans back to be executed. Unaware of this, the two soldiers saunter into the Emir''s palace. Fortunately, Phelps reads Mirza''s warning note in time, and the two escape. When Phelps sets out to rescue Mirza, O''Gaffney shows true friendship and accompanies him. They are trapped by Shevket and his men, but when Mirza threatens to kill herself, Shevket proposes they settle this with a duel in which only one of the pistols is loaded. Phelps agrees and fires first; his gun is the unloaded one. Mirza is made to leave the room. Then Shevket reveals that both guns are empty; he did not wish to wager his life with a "dog". He exits, leaving his men to dispose of Phelps. The two men overcome their captors, relieve Shevket of Mirza, and ride away.'
'crime','Boisterous gangster kingpin ''Bull'' Weed rehabilitates the down-and-out ''Rolls Royce'' Wensel, a former lawyer who has fallen into alcoholism. The two become confidants, with Rolls Royce''s intelligence aiding Weed''s schemes, but complications arise when Rolls Royce falls for Weed''s girlfriend ''Feathers'' McCoy. Adding to Weed''s troubles are attempts by a rival gangster, ''Buck'' Mulligan, to muscle in on his territory. Their antagonism climaxes with Weed killing Mulligan and he is imprisoned, awaiting a death sentence. Rolls Royce devises an escape plan, but he and Feathers face a dilemma, wondering if they should elope together and leave Bull Weed to his fate.'
'horror','Alonzo the Armless is a circus freak who uses his feet to toss knives and fire a rifle at his partner, Nanon. However, he is an impostor and fugitive. He has arms, but keeps them tightly bound to his torso, a secret known only to his friend Cojo, a midget. Alonzo''s left hand has a double thumb, which would identify him as the perpetrator of various crimes. Alonzo is secretly in love with Nanon. Malabar, the circus strongman, is devoted to her as well, but she has a strong fear of men''s arms and cannot stand being pawed by them, so she shuns him. She only feels comfortable around the armless Alonzo. When she embraces and kisses him, he is given hope, but Cojo warns him that he cannot let it happen again. If she holds him, she might feel his arms. When Antonio Zanzi, the circus''s owner and Nanon''s father, discovers Alonzo''s secret, Alonzo kills him with his bare hands. Nanon witnesses this through a window. A flash of lightning reveals that her father''s killer has a double thumb on his left hand, but she does not see his face. Since Alonzo is believed to be armless, he is not a suspect. When the circus leaves town, Alonzo has Nanon remain behind with him. He takes extreme measures to try to have the woman he loves. He blackmails a surgeon into amputating his arms. While he is away, however, Malabar''s steadfast love finally enables Nanon to overcome her phobia, and she agrees to marry him. When Alonzo (now truly armless) returns to Nanon, she excitedly tells him the news. Alonzo is shocked and horrified, first laughing, then crying, confusing the couple. He then learns that Malabar and Nanon have been practicing a new act, where the strongman''s arms are seemingly pulled in opposite directions by two horses (who are actually on hidden treadmills). During the first performance, Alonzo stops one treadmill in an attempt to maim or kill his rival. When Nanon starts to intervene, Alonzo threatens her with a knife. However, she rushes to calm down one of the horses. Alonzo tries to save her from injury by pushing her out of the way. The horse knocks Alonzo down and fatally stomps on him. In the original film script and some discarded filmed sequences, Alonzo murders both the doctor and Cojo, to eliminate them as witnesses before he returns to claim Nanon.'
'melodrama','In the story, which opens in the early 1900s, Jannings plays August Schiller, a bank clerk in Milwaukee who is happy with both his job and his family. But when bank officials ask him to transport $1,000 in securities to Chicago, he meets a blond seductress on the train, who sees what he is carrying. She flirts with him, convinces him to buy her a bottle of champagne, and takes him to a saloon run by a crook. The next morning he awakes alone in a dilapidated bedroom, without the securities. He finds the woman, and at first pleads with her, then intimidates her to return the stolen securities. He is knocked unconscious by the saloon owner and dragged to a nearby railroad track. As the crook strips him of everything that might lead to his identification, Schiller recovers consciousness, and in a struggle the crook is thrown into the path of an oncoming train and killed. Schiller flees, and in despair is about to take his own life, when he sees in a newspaper that he is supposedly dead, the crook''s mangled body having been identified as Schiller''s. The time passes to twenty years later. Schiller is aged and unkempt, employed to pick up trash in a park. He sees his own family go to a cemetery and place a wreath on his grave. Following other scenes in a Christmas snowstorm, Schiller makes his way to his former home, where he sees that the son whom he had taught to play violin is now a successful musician. He walks away, carrying in his pocket a dollar that his son has given him, not recognizing that the old tramp is his father. The film is unrelated to Samuel Butler''s novel The Way of All Flesh.'
'historical drama','Chevalier Fabien des Grieux, who has forsworn the world for the church, falls passionately in love with young Manon Lescaut when he encounters her en route to a convent with her brother André. The lustful Comte Guillot de Morfontaine offers André a tempting sum for Manon, and learning of their bargain, Fabien takes her to Paris, where they spend an idyllic week in a garret. André finds her, persuades her to leave Fabien, and tries to force her into an alliance with Morfontaine—then rescues Manon from the advances of a brutal Apache. Fabien, crushed to believe that Manon has become Morfontaine''s mistress, is about to take his vows but is deterred by her love for him. King Louis sees Manon in Richelieu''s drawing room and wins her. The rejected Morfontaine orders her arrest and deportation, but he is killed by Fabien, who joins Manon on a convict ship bound for America. After inciting the convicts to mutiny, he escapes with her in a small boat.'
'comedy','The film starts with the loading of a ship called the Merry Maiden. Oliver is first mate on the ship and described as "a bully, the nastiest crew member, after the captain of course". He features a beard and a mustache, rather than his usual solitary mustache. Stan plays Willie Brisling a guy who is engaged to Nelly and they are in love. The captain leaves his ship, he sees Nelly and decides he wants her. Stan has a tattoo of a ship on his chest and shows it to the captain. The captain pours a jug of water down Stan''s sweater and abducts Nelly. The captain takes Nelly to his ship and Stan sneaks on board to rescue her. Oliver starts to look for Stan. Stan decides to save Nelly his last hope is to get rid of the crew, one by one. Stan disguises himself as a loose woman. The crew begin to fall for his charms. Stan calls one of the crewmen over, he hits the crewman with a cosh and knocks him out. Then he throws the cosh at Oliver, who thinks the crewman threw the cosh. Oliver throws the crewman overboard, this is repeated until all of the crew are in the sea. Nelly is being harassed by the captain. The captain''s wife appears at the ship. The Captain takes a fancy to Stan. The wife appears as Stan is sat in the captain''s lap. The captain''s wife takes a gun and goes to shoot her husband. Stan stops her and takes off his wig. Stan says "this was a test to see if you really love your husband". The captain and wife begin to make up. But then the captain indicates he''s going to "deal with Stan later". Stan is peeved, he opens the door and Nelly appears. Stan indicates the captain has been up to no good with Nelly and that four other loose women have already gone. The captain''s wife is furious, Stan gives her the gun back. Stan and Nelly leave. There is a gunshot in the room. The wife, still angry, sees Stan and Nelly through a porthole and shoots them. Stan and Nelly''s clothes fall off revealing their underwear.'
'war','Jack Powell and David Armstrong are rivals in the same small American town, both vying for the attentions of pretty Sylvia Lewis. Jack fails to realize that "the girl next door", Mary Preston, is desperately in love with him. The two young men both enlist to become combat pilots in the Air Service. When they leave for training camp, Jack mistakenly believes Sylvia prefers him. She actually prefers David and lets him know about her feelings, but is too kindhearted to turn down Jack''s affection. Jack and David are billeted together. Their tent mate is Cadet White, but their acquaintance is all too brief; White is killed in an air crash the same day. Undaunted, the two men endure a rigorous training period, where they go from being enemies to best friends. Upon graduating, they are shipped off to France to fight the Germans. Mary joins the war effort by becoming an ambulance driver. She later learns of Jack''s reputation as the ace known as "The Shooting Star" and encounters him while on leave in Paris. She finds him, but he is too drunk to recognize her. She puts him to bed, but when two military police barge in while she is innocently changing from a borrowed dress back into her uniform in the same room, she is forced to resign and return to the United States. The climax of the story comes with the epic Battle of Saint-Mihiel. David is shot down and presumed dead. However, he survives the crash landing, steals a German biplane, and heads for the Allied lines. By a tragic stroke of bad luck, Jack spots the enemy aircraft and, bent on avenging his friend, begins an attack. He is successful in downing the aircraft and lands to retrieve a souvenir of his victory. The owner of the land where David''s aircraft crashed urges Jack to come to the dying man''s side. He agrees and becomes distraught when he realizes what he has done. David consoles him and before he dies, forgives his comrade. At the war''s end, Jack returns home to a hero''s welcome. He visits David''s grieving parents to return his friend''s effects. During the visit he begs their forgiveness for causing David''s death. Mrs. Armstrong says it is not Jack who is responsible for her son''s death, but the war. Then, Jack is reunited with Mary and realizes he loves her.'
'adventure','Captain Winslow takes a revolutionary new clipper ship, built by his father, on its first voyage, and Mickey Murphy is found stowing away in a burlap sack. While in China, Winslow attends a dinner hosted by a wealthy Chinese merchant and rescues English maiden Lady Jocelyn Huntington from rioting beggars. Winslow agrees to a race from China to Boston against an English clipper ship. He wins the race and Lady Jocelyn.'
'drama','The plot concerns four orphans (Janet Gaynor, Nancy Drexel, Barry Norton, and Charles Morton) who become a high wire act, and centers around sinister goings-on at a circus.'
'comedy','A Jewish boy, Abie Levy (Rogers), falls in love with and secretly marries Rosemary Murphy (Carroll), an Irish Catholic girl, but lies to his family, saying that she''s Jewish. The fathers of both bride and groom are at first religiously bigoted toward the other but with the birth of twin grandchildren, their antagonism fades.'
'romance, drama','In 1857, Joel Shore (Ramon Novarro), the carefree youngest son of a seafaring family, has a flirtatious friendship with Priscilla Crowninshield (Joan Crawford), and he eventually falls in love with her. However, unbeknownst to him, Priscilla has been betrothed to Joel''s much older brother, Mark (Ernest Torrence). The wedding is announced in church as a surprise, and Joel and Priscilla are both shocked, with Priscilla refusing to kiss her new husband after the ceremony. Mark, a ship''s captain, sails to Singapore, accompanied by Joel and their other brothers. Priscilla tells Joel she had no idea about the marriage and tries to kiss him, but Joel is hurt and rebuffs Priscilla''s advances before he leaves. At the same time, Mark, mad about Priscilla spurning him, drinks heavily during the voyage and begins to see hallucinations of Priscilla. He senses that Priscilla loves someone else and threatens to harm whoever it is, but Joel tells him she does not love anyone but Mark. Mark continues to drink once they arrive in Singapore, but a conspiratorial crew led by Finch (Jim Mason) sails from Singapore without him, with Mark killed in a bar fight. Joel is put in handcuffs for allegedly not coming to his brother''s aid during the fight. Reaching home, Joel is freed; he finds Priscilla, and, taking her with him, he returns to Singapore for Mark, as he does not believe Mark is dead. They arrive in Singapore six months after having left, and find Mark a drunken mess. Mark sees that Priscilla does not love him, and he steps aside for his brother.'
'drama','Two young men, "Speed" Doolittle (Arthur Lake) and Buddy Blake (David Rollins) go out west to become pilots. The pair encounter an accomplished aviator (Sue Carol) in flight school at a local airport. Once at the school, the boys set about learning to fly. On his first solo flight, however, Buddy has a sudden attack of fear and almost kills himself and his instructor. Buddy despairs of becoming an aviator, and his mother (Louise Dresser ) comes to comfort him. Sue and Speed take off in an aircraft with defective landing gear, and Buddy, overcoming his fear, flies to their assistance. He prevents Speed from landing until he and Sue have fixed the defective part.'
'crime','Jimmy Valentine is the alias of an infamous safe cracker who has just been sentenced to prison for four years for his crimes. He does not stay locked up for long, though, as he is released after ten months. When he is released, he packs his state of the art, custom robbery tools and commits several more robberies. Ben Price, the detective who put him away the first time is called to the case, but although he knows it is Jimmy (because of the style the crimes were committed with) he cannot find him. Jimmy has actually fled and he is currently in the small town of Elmore, Arkansas, with plans to rob the local bank there. However, he finds himself love struck by the banker''s beautiful daughter, Annabel Adams, and begins to fall in love with her. In order to get such a beautiful girl, he decides to turn over a new leaf and give up his criminal career and take another alias, Ralph D. Spencer. "Ralph" opens a shoe-making store and is very successful in doing so. He even begins to like his new life, and easily wins Annabel''s heart, becoming engaged to her. He writes a letter to an old friend, and tells him to meet him in Little Rock, where he will give him his robbery tools he doesn''t need anymore. On the day of the exchange, however, the banker shows the town his new safe, that cannot be broken into. Annabel''s nieces are amazed at the sheer size of it, and begin to walk in and out of it. Unfortunately, one accidentally shuts the door, locking the other inside. Everyone panics, as the banker has not set the combination yet, and Annabelle begs "Ralph" to do something. This is hard for Valentine, as Ben Price has also tracked him down, and watches to see his decision. As Jimmy has tried so hard to start over, he finds himself making a very difficult decision. However, he decides that there is only so much air in the safe, and if he does not take action, the terrified child may suffocate. Valentine pulls out his bag of tools and breaks the safe open in a matter of seconds, amazing the banker, and saving the child. (He ironically broke his own record in his haste.) Jimmy knows that since he has revealed his identity, he must leave. As he is leaving, he decides that he may as well go to prison and he surrenders to Ben. However, Ben, who knows that Valentine has truly changed, tells Jimmy he should go to Little Rock, and leaves, pretending that he never saw him.'
'drama','The film tells the story of a woman (Dorothy Mackaill) who comes between a man (Milton Sills) and his estranged son (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.). Sills is a carnival barker who is in love with a dancing girl and is ambitious to have his son, Fairbanks, become a lawyer. Fairbanks has other ideas and during his vacation he hops a freight, joins the carnival, and weds a dancing girl (Mackaill). Eventually, Fairbanks fulfills the ambition his father had for him.'
'drama','Marie Skinner (Phyllis Haver) is a gold digger with her hooks out for devoted middle-aged family man J.C. Judson (Jean Hersholt), a portly real estate tycoon, who falls for her when she contrives to meet him. When his wife (Belle Bennett) and grown children, Ruth (Sally O''Neil) and Billy (William Bakewell) discover him dancing with Marie at a nightclub, J.C. leaves home the next day. Ruth seeks out Marie to shoot her, but is interrupted by Marie''s boyfriend, jazz hound Babe Winsor (Don Alvarado), who takes a shine to her. When Judson walks in on them he condemns her licentiousness, but is forced to face his double standard when he witnesses a violent argument between Marie and Babe. Full of contrition, J.C. returns to home and hearth and the bosom of his loving family.[5][6][7]'
'comedy','A young doctor (William Collier Jr) is accused by his pretty wife (Audrey Ferris) of paying too much attention to one of his woman patients (Margaret Livingston) when she makes a pass at him. Ferris, assuming that her husband is having an affair, decide to have one herself with a perfumer, played by George Beranger. Wife and husband make up but they soon quarrel once again when the jealous wife finds her husband at a cafe with Livingston. Ferris decides to leave her husband and starts going out with Beranger to wild parties. Eventually, Ferris decides that she truly loves Collier and can''t live without him. They are reconciled and Ferris returns to her husband.'
'comedy, romance','Buster (Buster Keaton), a sidewalk tintype portrait photographer in New York City, develops a crush on Sally (Marceline Day), a secretary who works for MGM Newsreels. To be near her, he purchases an old film camera, emptying his bank account, and attempts to get a job as one of MGM''s filmers. Harold (Harold Goodwin), an MGM cameraman who has designs on Sally himself, mocks his ambition. Sally, however, encourages Buster and suggests he film anything and everything. Buster''s first attempts show his total lack of experience. He double exposes or over exposes much of the footage, and the rest is simply no good. Despite this setback, Sally agrees to go out with Buster, after her Sunday date cancels. They go to the city plunge (pool), where Buster gets involved in numerous mishaps. Later, Harold offers Sally a ride home; Buster has to sit in the rumble seat, where he gets drenched in the rain. The next day, Sally gives him a hot tip she has just received that something big is going to happen in Chinatown. In his rush to get there, he accidentally runs into an organ grinder, who falls and apparently kills his monkey. A nearby cop makes Buster pay for the monkey and take its body with him. The monkey turns out only to be dazed and joins Buster on his venture. In Chinatown, Buster films the outbreak of a Tong War, narrowly escaping death on several occasions. At the end, he is rescued from Tong members by the timely arrival of the police, led by a cop (Harry Gribbon) who had been the unintentional victim of several of Buster''s antics over the last few days. The cop tries to have him committed to the mental hospital, but Buster makes his escape with his camera intact. Returning to MGM, Buster and the newsreel company''s boss are dismayed to find that he apparently forgot to load film into his camera. When Sally finds herself in trouble for giving Buster the tip, Buster offers to make amends by leaving MGM alone once and for all. Buster returns to his old job, but does not give up on filming, setting up to record a boat race. He then discovers that he has Tong footage after all; the mischievous monkey had switched the reels. Sally and Harold are speeding along in one of the boats. When Harold makes too sharp a turn, the two are thrown into the river. Harold saves himself, but Sally is trapped by the circling boat. Buster stops filming to jump in and rescues her. The monkey gets behind the camera to film the daring rescue. When Buster rushes to a drug store to get medical supplies to revive her, Harold returns and takes credit for the rescue. The two go off, leaving the broken-hearted Buster behind. Buster decides to send his Tong footage to MGM free of charge. The boss decides to screen it for Harold and Sally for laughs, but is thrilled by what he sees, calling it the best camerawork he has seen in years. They also see footage of Buster''s boat footage and the monkey''s shot of Buster''s rescue of Sally. The boss sends Sally to get Buster. She tells him he is in for a great reception. Buster assumes a ticker-tape parade is in his honor, whereas it is really for Charles Lindbergh.'
'comedy','A group of American coeds/flappers arrives at the Hotel Venitien on the French Riviera. In the hotel lobby, Sally Baxter encounters Monsieur de Segurola, "the famous baritone", and asks him to write something in her autograph album. However, when she reads what he has written, she tears it out. Next, she spots handsome Andre Briault, "the famous tennis champion", and his girlfriend Simone. After Andre drives away, Sally notices Simone and de Sugorola making eye contact. (Albine, Andre''s valet, does not approve of Simone either.) When Andre later telephones Simone, he hears someone singing; Simone claims it is only a phonograph record playing, but then de Sugorola coughs. Andre heads over to the hotel to check up on her. She tries to distract him, but Andre spots de Sugorola trying to sneak out of her suite, tosses him out into the hall and breaks up with Simone. The last part is witnessed by Sally. She chases after Andre to get his autograph, but her pen seems to be out of ink. After he leaves, she finds that there is ink after all; unable to get a taxi, she steals a car and follows him to the Casino. There, she inadvertently loses 50,000 francs playing baccarat against him, and is asked to pay. She writes on a check that she has no money to speak of, and Andre good-naturedly tears it up. Then Andre spots Simone. He is still in love with her, so Sally suggests he pretend to be in love with someone else. He thinks that is an excellent plan; he chooses Sally, telling her that this is how she can pay her gambling debt. He instructs Sally to never let him be alone with Simone and to not let him weaken. When Simone tries to win him back, he introduces her to his "fiancée", Sally. However, he keeps falling for Simone''s enticements. Fortunately, Sally is extremely persistent, going to outlandish lengths to keep him out of her rival''s clutches. Finally, she socks him in the jaw to stop him from chasing after Simone. He reacts by pushing her clear into the next room, knocking her unconscious. This finally makes him realize whom he truly loves.'
'western','The story takes place in old Mexico, where a masked rider (Talmadge) and an impoverished girl (Bedford) fall in love, against her father''s wishes. When she leaves with him, her father sends his gang in a chase after the two lovers.'
'comedy, adventure','At a circus midway, the penniless and hungry Tramp (Chaplin) is mistaken for a condemnable pickpocket and chased by both the police and the real crook (the latter having stashed a stolen wallet and watch in the Tramp''s pocket to avoid detection). Running away, the Tramp stumbles into the middle of a performance and unknowingly becomes the hit of the show. The ringmaster/proprietor of the struggling circus gives him a tryout the next day, but the Tramp fails miserably. However, when the property men quit because they have not been paid, he gets hired on the spot to take their place. Once again, he inadvertently creates comic mayhem during a show. The ringmaster craftily hires him as a poorly paid property man. The Tramp befriends Merna (Kennedy), a horse rider who is treated badly by her ringmaster stepfather. She later informs the Tramp that he is the star of the show, forcing the ringmaster to pay him accordingly. With the circus thriving because of him, the Tramp also is able to secure better treatment for Merna. After overhearing a fortune teller inform Merna that she sees "love and marriage with a dark, handsome man who is near you now", the overjoyed Tramp buys a ring from another clown. Alas for him, she meets Rex (Crocker), the newly hired tightrope walker. The Tramp eavesdrops as she rushes to tell the fortune teller that she has fallen in love with the new man. With his heart broken, the Tramp is unable to entertain the crowds. After several poor performances, the ringmaster warns him he has only one more chance. When Rex cannot be found for a performance, the ringmaster (knowing that the Tramp has been practicing the tightrope act in hopes of supplanting his rival) sends the Tramp out in his place. Despite a few mishaps, including several mischievous escaped monkeys, he manages to survive the experience. However, when he sees the ringmaster slapping Merna around afterward, he beats the man and is fired. Merna runs away to join him. The Tramp finds and brings Rex back with him to marry Merna. The trio go back to the circus. The ringmaster starts berating his stepdaughter, but stops when Rex informs him that she is his wife. When the traveling circus leaves, the Tramp remains behind : he prefers to fade to allow them to be happy. Melancholic, he picks himself up and starts walking jauntily away.'
'drama','The story centers on an Asian woman named Onoto (Loy), who is rescued from slavery by a fugitive of European ancestry named Gregory Kent (Miljan). They fall in love, but prevailing mores about race doom the romance. Onoto leaves Kent so that he may marry another (Hyams).'
'drama','Born on the Fourth of July, 1900, John Sims (James Murray) loses his father when he is twelve. At 21, he sets out for New York City, where he is sure he will become somebody important, just as his father had always believed. Another boat passenger warns him that he will have to be good to stand out in the crowd. He gets a job as one of many office workers in the Atlas Insurance Company. Fellow employee Bert (Bert Roach) talks him into a double date to Coney Island. John is so smitten with Mary (Eleanor Boardman), he proposes to her at the end of the date; she accepts; Bert predicts the marriage will last a year or two. The couple honeymoon in Niagara Falls. In the tiny apartment next to an elevated train track where the couple live, a Christmas Eve dinner with Mary''s mother (Lucy Beaumont) and two brothers (Daniel G. Tomlinson and Dell Henderson), with whom John is not on friendly terms, ends badly. John goes to Bert''s to get some liquor, where a young woman throws herself at him, tells him how handsome he is, and starts dancing with him. John does not return until it is very late and he is very drunk. Mary''s family has gone home, and she tells him that they don''t understand him. "Do you understand me?" he asks, and she answers "I think so." They exchange Christmas gifts and John calls her a "wonnerful little woman", but yells at her when she opens an umbrella in the apartment. In April, they quarrel and Mary threatens to leave. She is shocked and hurt when he does not try to stop her, but the couple reconcile when she reveals she is pregnant. She gives birth to a son. The next five years produce a daughter and an $8 raise, but Mary is dissatisfied with John''s lack of advancement, especially compared to Bert, and John''s big talk about his prospects. Finally, John wins $500 for an advertising slogan; he buys presents for his family. However, when he and Mary urge their children to rush home to see their gifts, their daughter is run over by a truck. John is so deeply affected, he cannot concentrate at work. When reprimanded, he quits. He gets other jobs, but cannot hold onto them. Finally, Mary''s brothers reluctantly offer him a position. When John is too proud to accept a "charity job", Mary can take no more; she slaps him. John goes for a walk, contemplating suicide, but his son goes with him. The child''s unconditional love for him makes him change his mind. He gets work as a sandwich board carrier and returns home, his optimism renewed, only to find Mary about to leave with her brothers. She gets out of the house, but no further. She loves him too much to abandon him. The reconciled family attends a vaudeville comedy show, with the final shot showing them laughing hysterically, lost in the crowded audience of laughing people.'
'drama','Marianne (Greta Garbo) is a poor French country girl who goes to Paris in the 1860s to seek her fortune as an actress. As she rises to success in the theatre, she must choose between the romantic attentions of two men. The first is Lucien (Lars Hanson), a poor but passionate young soldier who deserts the army to be with Marianne and goes to jail after stealing a dress to give her. Her other suitor is Henry Legrand (Lowell Sherman), a wealthy middle-aged Paris producer who offers her fame and fortune.'
'melodrama','An American tramp steamer docks in New York harbor sometime in the early years of the 20th Century before prohibition. In the bowels of the ship, coal stokers are shutting down the furnaces and anticipating a night of shore leave. The bullying third engineer, Andy (Mitchell Lewis) warns the exhausted crew that they will be punished if they return drunk when the vessel sails the following morning. The stokers gather to leer at crude pornographic graffiti scrawled on the engine room wall before debarking to carouse at the local gin-mills. On shore, Andy enters the "The Sandbar", dance-hall saloon, craving a beer and female companionship. He has unexpected encounter with his estranged wife, Lou (Olga Bachonova). During his absence of three years, she has become a habitué of the saloon, where she freely enjoys male companionship. The “couple” joins one another for a drink: no love is lost between them. The stoker Bill Roberts - a swaggering brawler when on leave - rescues a drowning prostitute named Mae (Betty Compson) who has leapt off the dock to end her sordid life. Bill, ignoring the admonishment of his sidekick “Sugar” Steve (Clyde Cook), impassively carries the semi-conscious woman to a room above "The Sandbar", indifferent to the protests from the proprietor’s wife, Mrs. Crimp (May Foster). Lou intercedes to provide first-aid and revives Mae, a fallen angel like herself. Bill’s growing awareness of Mae’s physical beauty assumes a proprietary quality. He fetches her a beverage from the bar and presents her with a pretty dress he steals from a pawn shop next door. Bill exhorts her to join him for the evening, and Mae, distraught and vulnerable, accepts his invitation. They meet downstairs in the raucous tavern. Andy attempts to pull rank and cut in on the couple, but the powerful stoker drives him off with blows. Lou, observing her husband’s boorishness, looks on with contempt. Mae and Bill mutually confess their sexual histories to one another, she with regret, he with masculine pride. So as to win Mae’s favors for the night, Bill consents to marry her on the spot and Mae wistfully obliges. The local missionary “Hymn Book” Harry (Gustav von Seyffertitz) is summoned and sternly delivers the sacrament. Lou provides Mae with a ring: her own, now superfluous wedding ring. The couple takes their vows, each shamefacedly, while the formerly boisterous patrons observe with mock solemnity, then erupt in cheers when the newlyweds kiss. The following morning, Bill slips quietly from the flophouse honeymoon suite, without a word to Mae. Andy, observing that the stoker is abandoning his “wife”, goes to Mae’s room, where she has just discovered Bill’s desertion. Andy attempts to force himself on her, but Lou arrives and guns him down. The police suspect Mae of the murder, but Lou confesses and is arrested. Under the blandishments of “Sugar” Steve, Bill takes leave of Mae - the influence of the possessive "Sugar" Steve. Driven to distraction by his perfidy, she angrily drives him from the her room. Aboard the steamer, Bill has an epiphany. He bolts from the subterranean furnaces to the sunny deck, leaps overboard and swims to shore. There he inquires as to Mae’s whereabouts and discovers that she is in custody at Night Court, charged with stealing the clothing he had bestowed on her. Moments after the judge sentences her to jail, Bill presents himself and confesses to the crime, exonerating Mae. He pledges to reunite with Mae after he serves his 60-day sentence, and she agrees to wait for him.'
'comedy','A flapper masquerades as her straight-laced cousin to try and impress a potential suitor.'
'drama','In Sussex, England after the Great War, former aristocrat Mary Viner (Florence Vidor) and her father, retired sea captain Hesketh Viner (Charles A. Stevenson), live in a small humble cottage on Doomsday, a large and valuable farm property owned by a wealthy landlord named Percival Fream (Lawrence Grant). Mary is attracted to another tenant at Doomsday, Arnold Furze (Gary Cooper), a young ex-officer and farmer who works the land with pride as if it were his own. Soon she and Arnold fall in love, but she longs to escape her oppressive poverty. Meanwhile, the self-made wealthy landlord Percival develops an attraction to Mary and hopes to marry the former aristocrat as evidence of his rising social status. One day middle-aged Percival makes his intentions known to Mary, who cannot resist his palatial home and the lifestyle he offers her. Despite her love for Arnold, she selfishly agrees to marry Percival. After the wedding, they leave Mary''s infirm father in the care of a nurse and sail to the Continent and spend the next year living abroad. During that time, Percival gives her jewelry and expensive dresses, but does not give her the love she desires. He treats her as just another one of his belongings to display in front of his friends. Eventually, Mary discovers that the lifestyle she chose has not brought her happiness and that her loveless marriage to Percival was a mistake. After she learns of her father''s death, she asks Percival for an annulment. Left with no money and no place to live, Mary ends up at Arnold''s cottage and humbly offers to work for him as a housekeeper. Still feeling betrayed by Mary''s earlier rejection of their love, Arnold cautiously accepts her offer, but for the next six months, he treats her in an insensitive and overbearing manner. Gradually, their love is rekindled, Arnold atones for his harsh behavior, and the two once again find happiness in each other.'
'historical drama','Adrienne, a Gypsy girl performing in a traveling carnival, is unable to find true love for herself until she makes the acquaintance of Prince Maurice. They fall in love, but must part when, for diplomatic reasons, the prince is called upon to make love to the rich wife of an influential duke. Adrienne later becomes a popular stage actress and again meets the prince. Coincidentally, she is appearing in a play which resembles the sad story of her earlier relationship with the prince. Maurice is struggling to win his throne from a usurping dictator. With Adrienne''s help, he dodges an assassination attempt and becomes king.'
'drama','The gang of a mob boss grow suspicious of his new girlfriend. She''s a beautiful young girl and they don''t believe she would actually associate with the mob and wonder if she''s really a police "plant". The mobsters dress nattily to not appear "out of place" in the ritzy neighborhoods prior to a heist.'
'romance','After finding out her father and his estate is in danger, Princess Emanuella saves his life by marrying Duke Cathos de Alvia, a grotesque hunchback. She actually is in love with Leonardo, his attractive younger brother. They already had an affair before the marriage, but continue secretly meeting each other. In the end, Cathos finds out about his wife''s unfaithfulness and stabs both his wife and brother to death.[1]'
'comedy','Wealthy divorced American Willoughby Quimby has been living in Paris, France for ten years when he learns his adult daughter Elizabeth is coming to visit. He has been living the high life full of wine and women but decides to forego both during her stay. Elizabeth gets bored with him so she begins seeing rakish artist Paul De Launay. Quimby''s young pal Freddie Fletcher saves Elizabeth from the clutches of de Launay in the nick of time. After Elizabeth''s marriage to Freddie her father returns to his wanton ways.'
'romantic comedy','Barbara Manning (Daniels) is a wealthy hypochondriac who inherits a sanatorium and finds love and adventure.'
'drama','Set in the fictitious European kingdom of Balanca, Prince Michael IV is being coerced, by his advisers, to marry a young woman of royal blood. However, he has fallen for a peasant.'
'drama','Mother Bernle is a widow in Bavaria with four sons: Franz, Johann, Andreas and Joseph. Joseph receives a job offer from the United States, and he is given money to travel there by his mother. The First World War is heating up. Franz, who is already serving in the German army, is joined by first Johann and then Andreas who is forced into the army. In America, Joseph has married and is running a delicatessen when America enters the war, Joseph enlists to fight for the American side. When Joseph''s enlistment is discovered, it causes problems for Mother Bernle because she is shunned in her village. Franz and Johann are killed on the Eastern Front. Andreas is wounded on the Western Front and dies in the arms of his brother Joseph.'
'drama','Benny Horowitz (John Gilbert), a reformed gangster, proposes marriage to Bertha (Carmel Myers), a neighbor who had been a frequent visitor while he served his sentence. Bertha rejects his proposal because she believes that he is still in love with Freida (Joan Crawford), Benny''s former gun moll. During a party in which Freida seeks to make Benny jealous with a former rival, Benny again takes control of the gang''s leadership. After his rival''s death is ruled accidental, Benny and Bertha go off together and start a new life.'
'crime','The film follows the saxophone player Clyde, who busks on the San Francisco Bay waterfront. One night, he meets Flowers, and teaches her to dance, but finds that "Blackjack" (Eddie Gribbon), the leader of a ruthless gang, is also in love with her. Despite the intense turf war between "Blackjack" and a rival gangster named Mike Luego (Walter Long), "Blackjack" wins the heart of Flowers and marries her, but without consummating the marriage.[5] Clyde is eventually able to win "Blackjack" over however, and "Blackjack" sacrifices himself to protect Clyde and Flowers from Luego.'
'drama','A Viennese ingénue named Toni LeBrun, (Corinne Griffith), is determined not to be content in her current life, staying with her aunt and uncle and working in their pretzel bakery. The young girl earns a correspondence course degree as an opera singer and dreams of fame on the stage. She decides to leave her small town life, traveling to Budapest to answer an ad from the Palais de Paris. However, the ad was a sham, a way to get girls for cheap stage shows and more, for its wealthier clientele. When she arrives, Toni is confused when the manager, the lecherous (and quite possibly lesbian) Madame Bauer (Maude George), asks her to show her bare legs in lieu of exhibiting her singing voice. She is hired nonetheless, having been deemed sexy enough, while still ignorant of the set-up. She refuses to wear the skimpy costume assigned and is given a white puritan-style costume instead. Before the show, the manager greets aristocrat Henri D''Avril (Lowell Sherman), giving him a menu (of sorts) of the showgirls from which to choose. When he asks if there is anyone new, he is directed to Toni''s name on the program. When Toni begins her performance in earnest, the audience starts to slumber, given her conservative dress. But the manager directs a lighting change, which causes her translucent clothing become highly revealing and quite nearly see-through. Through their reaction, Toni realizes what has happened and runs off the stage where she is comforted by the wardrobe woman, Rosa (Louise Dresser), the only friend she''s made since arriving in the city. However, Madame Bauer is not through with Toni yet, she has arranged a rendezvous for her with D’Avril in a room off the stage. Once locked inside with Toni, he quickly tries to take advantage. She struggles against his advances which are heard by Rosa, who is able to come to her rescue. When Madame Bauer discovers that her client didn''t get what he wanted, she fires Toni and Rosa on the spot. Conveniently, Rosa was about to leave on a two-week vacation anyway and persuades the forlorn Toni to go with her. They go to Monte Carlo, but Toni is now suspicious of other people''s motives. So when Rosa signs the Eden Hotel register as Baroness & her daughter, Toni accuses her of being no better than Madame Bauer. However, Rosa has documentation which proves that she is in fact a Baroness, and tells Toni that she signed the registration that way because she wishes it were so. Only much of her fortune was lost after the First World War and she can only afford such trips by living frugally for the rest of the year. Later, when Toni is playing the piano in her room, she is spotted through the window from across the courtyard by Richard (Charles Ray). In an amusing scene, he tries to get her attention by signaling her, turning on & off the lights in his room. As a gag, she responds with same, causing everyone else on his entire side of the hotel to do it too. When Rosa sees it, she stops the nonsense. However, Richard then decides to call Toni''s room, but Rosa answers and decides to invite him over to put a stop to it. She plays the piano while she waits for Richard to arrive. But he arrives at Rosa''s door, where Toni is. Tired of unwanted suitors, she appears uninterested in his flirting, yet doesn''t reveal him when Rosa returns & he hides behind a door. Colonel Dupont (Edward Martindel) arrives to call on Rosa, but is instantly entranced by Toni. In the doorway, he asks the two ladies to dinner which is witnessed by Richard, who just moments earlier had escaped from their room via another door. Upon hearing their acceptance, Richard joins them, revealing that the Colonel is his uncle. After the dinner, Richard takes Toni for a walk through the hotel''s grounds and garden (the title of the film) and they fall in love, losing track of the time. The rest of the film has Toni being wooed by both Richard and his uncle with a song one of them wrote on the piano. However, there is a surprise involving D''Avril which threatens Toni''s happy ending.'
'romantic comedy','Arthur Wyatt, an American railroad conductor, is lost in the jungle of the Amazon in South America. He is rescued by Chela, the beautiful princess of a native tribe.'
'romantic comedy','Spike (McLaglen) travels the world as the mate of a schooner. He has a little address book full of sweethearts, but everywhere he goes, he finds that someone has been there before him, leaving behind with each girl a heart-shaped charm with an anchor inscribed on it. In Central America, he takes a dislike to another sailor, Salami (Armstrong), but before they can settle their differences, they brawl with the police and are thrown in jail. Then Spike notices that Salami has a ring shaped like a heart with an anchor inscribed. He has finally found his nemesis. When they are released, they look for a private place to fight, but accidentally fall into the water. Oddly, Spike cannot swim, so when Salami rescues him, they become the best of friends. Inseparable, they sail the seas on the same ships. Just before they reach Marseille, Spike tells Salami he has finally saved enough money to buy a house and some horses, cows and chickens, but Salami scoffs at the idea. When they dock, Salami has to stay aboard due to a toothache and worries the Spike will get into trouble without him. Sure enough, that is what happens. At a carnival, Spike becomes entranced by the high diver "Mam''selle Godiva" (Brooks). When the barker signals her that Spike gave him the most money to watch her performance, she latches onto him. He is so in love with her that he asks her if she would like to settle down with him; she leads him on so she can get the rest of his money. When Spike first introduces Salami to her, Salami recognizes her. She was his girlfriend at Coney Island until he left her. She makes it clear that she would very much like to renew their relationship, but he is not interested, nor does he want to hurt Spike by telling him the truth. One night, she sends Spike on an errand so she can visit Salami, whom she finds asleep in bed. She tells him that she has gotten most of Spike''s savings and is about to drop him. Salami refuses to take her back; he gets dressed and goes to a bar to get away from her. However, Spike returns to their lodgings and finds her there. He also spots Salami''s unmade bed, so he assumes the worst. Meanwhile, Salami gets into a fight with two other sailors and yells for his friend''s help. Spike knocks the two men out, then does the same to Salami. After thinking over all the fun they had together, however, he asks Salami if he betrayed him. When Salami says no, they become friends again.'
'drama','The film is a semi-historical narrative and depicts the real-life courtship, marriage, and forced breakup of Jérôme Bonaparte, brother of Napoleon, and his wife from the American south, Elizabeth Patterson. Napoleon did not approve of the union (despite the fact that her family was one of the wealthiest in America) and the marriage was annulled. Jérôme was subsequently forced to marry Catharina of Württemberg. They had one child, depicted in the film, Jérôme Napoleon Bonaparte. In order to provide a "happy ending", Jérôme in the film leaves France to be with his wife. However, in historical fact he remained in Europe.'
'drama','This drama features a romance between two different teenagers: a young atheist girl, Judith Craig, and the male head of a Christian youth organization, Bob Hathaway. The two leaders and their groups attack each other, starting a riot that kills a young girl. Followed by a goofy boy, Bozo, the three are thrown into a juvenile prison with a cruel head guard and bad living conditions. The film maker makes a point of talking about the truth of prison cruelty in the middle of the movie. Bob, who is in love with Judy, eventually rescues her and takes shelter in an old farm where Judy, breathtaken by the romance and beauty of the forest, realizes there must be a God. They are found and taken back to prison and held in solitary confinement until a fire breaks out. Mame is Judy''s new friend who is trying to get her out before she burns. But the rest of the prison girls escape. Bob, who is trusting in God to help them, finally rescues Judy with the help of Mame and Bozo; they also rescue the cruel head guard who pleads for his life and, as he is dying, sets them free for their kind act and rescue. At the very end, Bozo and Mame seem to end up together while Bob and Judy and their rekindled faith ride off together as the movie ends.'
'romance','Patience Winslow (Esther Ralston) is an impulsive thrill-seeking heiress who spends most of her time going from one wild party to another. One night after attending several parties, she smashes her car and spends the rest of the night in jail. The following morning, she comes home and announces to her father (William Worthington) that she just entered into a trial marriage with one of her party companions, a much older man. Concerned about her well-being, her father abducts her aboard his private yacht and sets sail in order to prevent the ill-advised marriage. Angered by her father''s actions and determined to escape, Patience arranges for a motor boat to be lowered to the water and she soon takes off across the waves. Captain Edmunds (Gary Cooper), the young skipper of the yacht, follows after her in another motor boat. After catching up to her, Edmunds makes a daring leap into her boat. Just then a storm engulfs the small boat and the helpless couple end up swept ashore and marooned on a desert island in the Pacific. Filled with fashionable notions she learned from popular radio dramas, Patience insists that she and Edmunds enter into a "companionate marriage" (in name only) and live together as a couple, but without the sexual entanglements. Edmunds agrees, and for three months they live out this "civilized" arrangement. Over time, however, Patience grows to love the young captain who in turn develops feelings for her. About to declare his love for her, Edmunds reconsiders because of her past actions, despite her insistence that she is no longer the spoiled thrill-seeker she once was. One day they spot a ship which comes to rescue them. After returning to civilization, the young captain wished Patience well, now that she is back among her wealthy friends. Later that night, however, as Edmunds prepares to set sail, Patience returns to him with a minister in tow. Realizing that Patience has changed and that her feelings for him are sincere, Edmunds and Patience are married.[4]'
'romance, drama','While stationed in Algiers Commandant Denis Hogan (Victor McLaglen) receives a letter containing bad news and requests that he be allowed to return to his home country of Ireland, where he is a wanted man. In Ireland, Baron James O''Brien (Hobart Bosworth) is told by his doctor that he has no more than a month to live. He decides to marry off his only daughter Connaught (June Collyer) to a socialite, John D''Arcy (Earle Foxe) despite her love of childhood friend Dermot McDermot (Larry Kent). Hogan returns to Ireland and disguises himself as a holy man. On his way to the O''Brien''s house he is recognised by a gatekeeper, whom he reveal his intentions to kill a man to. Hogan meets Dermot McDermot and the three men witness the lights of Glenmalure''s chapel being lit, signifying a wedding is taking place. At this time a group of soldiers ask the gate keeper if he has seen Hogan. Later that night, after Connaught and D''Arcy have been wed, the Baron dies. On the night of his funeral Hogan sneaks about the grounds of Hangman''s House and is spotted by D''Arcy. D''Arcy is startled by the appearance of Hogan. At bedtime D''Arcy tries to sleep with Connaught but she rejects his advances. A community race is held on St. Stephen''s Day and Connaught''s horse The Bard is due to race. The horse''s jockey goes missing just before the race because of interference from D''Arcy who has bet against the horse. Dermot is required to jockey the horse and he wins the race leading a drunken D''Arcy to shoot The Bard. D''Arcy is ostracised by the community because of this. Hogan is arrested at the race. At night Dermot and D''Arcy meet in a pub where D''Arcy reveals that he had an affair with Hogan''s sister. Dermot gives D''Arcy money to leave Ireland and threatens him that if he ever sees him again he will kill him. Hogan escapes from prison and a gunfight erupts between his men and the guards. Later Dermot and Connaught visit Hogan''s hideout and Hogan reveals that his sister died following D''Arcy''s desertion. Connaught returns to Hangman''s House to discover that D''Arcy has returned. After a struggle she flees to Dermot''s house. Hogan and Dermot go to Hangman''s House and confront D''Arcy. During a fight between the men a fire breaks out and burns down the house. Hogan and Dermot escape but D''Arcy falls to his death as a balcony collapses. Connaught and Dermot see Hogan off at the port as he returns to Algiers. Connaught gives Hogan a kiss and Dermot shakes his hands and thanks him. Connaught and Dermot walk away together as Hogan watches them.'
'crime','The title of The Hawk''s Nest comes from the speakeasy around which most of the action revolves. Two bootleggers, played by Milton Sills and Mitchell Lewis, quarrel over a dancer (Doris Kenyon) while a political assassination plot.'
'comedy','A young man tries to enlist in the United States Army for World War I, but is rejected as physically unfit.'
'romance','Dolly "Angel Face" Morgan is a parolee out to fleece any wealthy man who is taken in by her looks. She is recognized by two fellow con artists, Gwen and Brad. Since she needs some help, she allows them to help "pull a job," shaking down a wealthy man for $10,000 after her outraged "husband" (Brad) breaks in and finds them in a compromising situation. But when Brad has Gwen hide the money, and tells Dolly that their victim stopped payment on his check, Dolly takes all of the money and makes a quick getaway. Soon after, Dolly meets a young man named Steve Crandall in Atlantic City for a cement convention. Believing that he is a wealthy plantation owner, she flirts with him. When he proposes they get married that very night, Dolly is shocked, but accepts. She is packing to leave with Steve when Brad shows up, demanding his share of the $10,000. Once again, Dolly uses her wits to escape. Dolly and Steve take the train south to his home town of Winthrop, Alabama. There Dolly is rudely surprised to discover that Steve is far from rich, nor does he own a plantation (though he lives next door to one). He is certain his invention, Enduro cement, will make his fortune, but his new wife is not so sure. Dolly has grown fond of Steve, but cannot hide her disappointment from him. That evening, she has him take her to a train for New York. The next morning, however, Steve returns to his room to find Dolly curled up in a chair. She is in love with him and has decided to reform, though she keeps her past a secret. Brad and Gwen track her down, certain she has landed yet another rich sucker. They are surprised to find her living in modest circumstances. Dolly tells them that she has fallen for a poor man, but they do not believe her. To get rid of them, she gives them the $10,000. However, Steve receives a telegram informing him that a company has bought his cement formula for $100,000. Overjoyed, he rushes home and tells Dolly, his mother, and "cousins" Brad and Gwen. Brad and Gwen blackmail Dolly into a scheme to part Steve from his new-found riches. Brad invites the couple to stay with him in New York City. Just as Steve is about to sign Brad''s contract, Dolly cannot take it anymore. She telephones the police, then tells Steve that the contract is nothing but a scam; she then confesses to Steve that she herself is a crook and that she only married him in order to fleece him. Steve is devastated. The cops show up and take her away. Steve begs Dolly to come back to him, but she says that he would be better off without her. Dolly is taken to prison. Steve, however, manages to get the warden to parole her into his custody.'
'melodrama','In 1928 Hollywood, director Leo Andreyev (William Powell) looks through photographs for actors for his next movie. When he comes to the picture of an aged Sergius Alexander (Emil Jannings), he pauses, then tells his assistant (Jack Raymond) to cast the man. Sergius shows up at the Eureka Studio with a horde of other extras and is issued a general''s uniform. As he is dressing, another actor complains that his continual head twitching is distracting. Sergius apologizes and explains that it is the result of a great shock he once experienced. The film then flashes back ten years to Czarist Russia, which is in the midst of the Revolution. Grand Duke Sergius Alexander, the Czar''s cousin and commander of all his armies, is informed by his adjutant that two actors entertaining the troops have been identified as dangerous "revolutionists" during a routine passport check. He decides to toy with them for his amusement. When one of them, Leo Andreyev, becomes insolent, Sergius whips him across the face and has him jailed. Leo''s companion, the beautiful Natalie Dabrova (Evelyn Brent), is an entirely different matter. She intrigues Sergius. Despite the danger she poses, he takes her along with him. After a week, he gives her a pearl necklace as a token of his feelings for her. She comes to realize that he is at heart a man of great honor who loves Russia as deeply as she does. When she invites him to her room, he spots a partially hidden pistol, but deliberately turns his back to her. She draws the weapon, but cannot fire. Despite their political differences, she has fallen in love with him. When the Bolsheviks capture the train on which they are traveling, she pretends to despise him. Instead of having him shot out of hand like his officers, she suggests they have him stoke coal into the locomotive all the way to Petrograd, where he will be publicly hanged. When everyone is drunk, however, she helps him escape, giving him back the pearl necklace to finance his way out of the country. Sergius jumps from the train, then watches in horror as it tumbles off a nearby bridge into the icy river below, taking Natalie with it. This moment is when Sergius develops his head twitch. Ten years later, Sergius is reduced to poverty, eking out a living as a Hollywood extra. When he and the director finally meet, Sergius recognizes him. Leo, in an ironic act calculated to humiliate him, casts him as a Russian general in a battle scene. He is directed to give a speech to a group of actors playing his dispirited men. When one soldier tries to incite a mutiny, telling the general that "you''ve given your last command", he whips the man in the face as instructed, just as he had once struck Leo. Losing his grip on reality, he imagines himself genuinely on the battlefield, besieged by enemies, and passionately urges his men to fight for Russia. Overstraining himself, he dies, inquiring with his last words if they have won. Moved, Leo tells him they have. The assistant remarks, "That guy was a great actor." Leo replies, "He was more than a great actor - he was a great man."'
'melodrama','Tito (Lon Chaney), a traveling circus clown, finds an abandoned child. Tito adopts her and raises her as his daughter, naming her Simonetta after his brother Simon (Bernard Siegel). One day the now teen-aged Simonetta (Loretta Young) encounters Luigi (Nils Asther), a wealthy man who falls madly in love with her, but upon seeing that he already has a girlfriend, she rejects him. She returns home to the circus and Tito suddenly realizes she is no longer a child. Tito further realizes he has feelings for Simonetta, but also knows his feelings are improper because he raised her as his daughter. Luigi begins having fits of uncontrollable laughter because Simonetta has rejected him. Tito falls into melancholia because of his conflicted interests about Simonetta. They both see the same doctor about their conditions and meet for the first time. They share their respective troubles and believe they can help each other, not knowing they both love the same woman. Nonetheless, the three eventually develop a strong friendship until Luigi asks Simonetta to marry him. Simonetta eventually accepts Luigi''s proposal, which throws Tito into an even deeper melancholy. Simonetta learns of Tito''s affections for her before she marries Luigi. She tells Tito she loved him before she loved Luigi, then goes to break her engagement with Luigi. While Simonetta is breaking her engagement, Tito and Simon begin rehearsing some new material for their Flik and Flok act. Tito does not believe Simonetta''s love is genuine, but that it is just pity and at the same time, he knows that as her adopted father - it would not be right to have her as his wife. Driven insane by his internal conflict, he decides to practice his new routine from the act without protection. Despite his brother Simon''s protests, he continues with the stunt and falls from the highwire. Tito dies from his fall, freeing Simonetta to marry Luigi. The film survives in an incomplete print, but the missing footage does not critically affect the storyline.[citation needed] The surviving print seems to end rather abruptly, as the last few seconds of the fadeout are among the lost footage.[citation needed] The alternate happy ending - wherein Tito survives his fall and Simonetta marries Luigi, and they all remain close friends - shot at the studio''s insistence, has also been lost.[citation needed]'
'western','Betty Dallas (Crawford) is a passenger on a stagecoach that is held up by an outlaw named The Solitaire Kid (Lease). Ranger Jim Lockhart (McCoy), who is Betty''s sweetheart, is in pursuit of The Solitaire Kid, and in the end, as the two men face one another, there is a mortal shoot-out.'
'war','In World War I, four young men from various walks of life sign up as flyers for the Lafayette Escadrille, a military unit known as "The Legion of the Condemned". The unit is composed mostly of American volunteer pilots flying fighter aircraft. All four men are running away from something: the law, love, or themselves. Whenever a dangerous mission comes up, the four men draw cards to see who will fly off to near-certain doom. With his best friend Byron Dashwood (Barry Norton) already having died in combat, Gale Price (Gary Cooper) draws the high card next time around. As he prepares to drop a spy behind enemy lines, Gale remembers the events leading up to this moment - recounting his ill-fated romance with Christine Charteris (Fay Wray), whom he now believes to be a German spy. As he approaches his aircraft, Gale discovers that his passenger is Christine, who is actually an operative in the French secret service. Before she can explain her true identity, Gale is obliged to fly Christine to her rendezvous point. Both young people are captured with Christine sentenced to be executed as a spy. Just before they go to the firing squad, a bombing raid takes place. Afterward, they are rescued by their unit and reconciled.[2]'
'crime, drama','When bootleggers Jake Jackson (Walter Percival) and Dan Dickson (Jere Delaney), who have been hiding out in a small upstate New York town, learn that they finally can return to New York, they try to convince a young kid named Eddie Morgan (Cullen Landis) and his friend, a local barber named Gene (Eugene Palette) to come with them. With a promise from Jackson and Dickson that they will help the young men establish a barbershop in the city, Eddie asks his mother, Mrs. Morgan (Mary Carr), who owns the town''s Morgan Hotel, to loan them $5,000 of her savings. Eddie and Gene set up the barbershop in New York but soon learn that it is merely a front for a speakeasy. Frustrated and yearning for a return to the quiet life, Gene and Eddie vow to go home as soon as they earn enough to pay back Mrs. Morgan. Eddie is in love with Kitty Lewis (top-billed Helene Costello), his hometown sweetheart, who preceded him to New York. Now she is a performer at The Night Hawk, a nightclub owned by Hawk Miller (Wheeler Oakman), notorious bootlegger who controls the speakeasy behind the barbershop. Although Hawk''s longtime mistress, Molly Thompson (Gladys Brockwell), warns him not to pursue Kitty, he coldly dismisses her, saying that their relationship is over. After a police officer is killed in a bootlegging raid of a supply of Old Century liquor, Hawk tells his henchmen, Sam (Tom Dugan) and Collins (Tom McGuire), that they must find someone to take the blame to keep the police from closing him down. They suggest that Hawk frame Eddie, thereby "killing two birds with one stone." When Eddie comes to the club to visit Kitty, Hawk summons him to his office and asks him to hide his supply of Old Century, saying that it is only temporary, in case the police raid his club. When Detective Crosby (Robert Elliott) comes to the club to question Hawk and implies that he is behind the policeman''s murder, Hawk says that the only person he knows who has a supply of Old Century is Eddie. A short time later, Hawk goes to the barbershop and is killed by an unknown assailant. Fearing that they will be blamed, Eddie and Gene put Hawk''s body in a barber chair and rub his face with shaving cream just as Crosby arrives at the shop. After Eddie leaves, a nervous Gene pretends to shave Hawk, but the body slides from the chair, revealing its identity to Crosby. Although Gene swears that the absent Eddie is innocent, Crosby deduces that Eddie has gone to Kitty''s apartment and follows him there. Crosby is about to arrest Eddie and Kitty, when Molly arrives and reveals that she killed Hawk because he no longer wanted her. As there was a reward for the killer of the policeman, dead or alive, Crosby tells Molly that things will not go badly for her. Now freed from their obligation to Hawk, Kitty and Eddie take the next train home.'
'war','Seven young English aviators are billeted at the Berthelot farm near the French front. One of the flyers, Philip Blythe, falls in love with farmer Berthelot''s daughter, Jeannie, and on the morning before a dangerous mission declares his love for her. Philip is shot down, and Jeannie helps an ambulance crew to extricate his apparently lifeless body from the wrecked plane. In the following weeks, Jeannie searches in vain in all of the military army hospitals for Philip. She does encounter Philip''s father, who, disapproving of her lowly origins, falsely informs her that Philip has died. In farewell, Jeannie sends a bouquet of lilacs to his room, and Philip, recognizing the flowers as her gift, painfully drags himself to his window in time to call her back to him.'
'drama','Judge Ross, on the Federal Bench, rules in favor of a large company in litigation before him, unaware that a smaller company in which he owns considerable stock has been subsumed by the larger firm, thus creating appearance of a conflict of interests. When one of the Judge''s enemies plots to ruin the Judge over this apparent improper behavior, Judge Ross''s daughter Shirley sets out to prove her father''s innocence.'
'romance','Hannerl (Philbin) is a young woman growing up in Old Vienna. She falls in love with two men: A young army officer who can provide her love and security and an old wealthy man who can provide her a high-class life. She doesn''t know who she wants to spend her life with, but must make her decision.'
'comedy','Count D''Estrange tries to save his nephew Hubert from Denise Laverne he believes a heartless flirt. Denise''s mother Mme. Florence Laverne uses all her charms to solve the problems. Finally Count D''Estrange marries Mme. Florence Laverne. Both couples leave for a honeymoon in Venice. [4]'
'melodrama','In 1690''s England, King James II sentences his political enemy, Lord Clancharlie, to death in an iron maiden. Clancharlie''s son, Gwynplaine, is disfigured with a permanent grin by comprachico Dr. Hardquannone, so that he will "laugh forever at his fool of a father". When the comprachicos are exiled, Gwynplaine is deserted. He discovers a blind baby girl, Dea, who has also been abandoned. Together, they are taken in by the mountebank Ursus. Years later, a now-adult Gwynplaine has become The Laughing Man, the freak show star of a traveling carnival. He and Dea have also fallen in love; he remains distant, believing himself unworthy of her affection due to his disfigurement, although she cannot see it. Meanwhile, the jester Barkilphedro, who had been involved in Lord Clancharlie''s execution, is now attached to the court of Queen Anne. He discovers records that reveal Gwynplaine''s lineage and rightful inheritance. That estate is currently possessed by sexually aggressive vamp Duchess Josiana. Queen Anne grants Gwynplaine his peerage and a seat in the House of Lords, and orders Josiana to marry him in order to restore the proper ownership of the estate. Josiana, interested in the estate and perversely attracted to Gwynplaine''s disfigurement, attempts to seduce him. Ultimately, he rejects her advances, renounces his title, and refuses the Queen''s order of marriage. He escapes, pursued by guards in a chase punctuated by swordplay. At the docks, he meets back up with Dea and Ursus, and rejoins them as they set sail away from England.'
'romance','Don Wilson, a famous blackface comedian, is preparing to headline a new show. Arnold Wingate, his manager, persuades him to take a weekend off in the country. When their car breaks down, they go off in search of a mechanic. Don happens upon a ramshackle traveling theatrical stock company run by Jasper Bolivar and his daughter Ginger. One of the actors has quit, so Ginger is holding an audition. When Don asks the hopefuls in line about a garage, Ginger mistakes him for one of the applicants and chooses him as the best of a bad lot. Amused (and attracted to Ginger), he accepts the job, giving his name as "Harry Mann". Playing a dying Union soldier, Don has one line ("I love you.") and gets kissed by Ginger''s character. The show, an American Civil War melodrama, is terribly amateurish, but the audience does not know any better and applauds appreciatively. Don''s friends attend the show and laugh, particularly at his hijinks. (Don repeats his line several times, forcing Ginger to kiss him over and over again.) Afterward, Ginger fires him for his bad acting. Wingate has an idea; he signs the company for his Broadway show as a comedy act, though the Bolivars and the rest of the actors are deceived into believing their play has been appreciated. Don has Wingate stipulate that the entire cast be included, so Ginger reluctantly rehires him. He insists on a raise. During rehearsals, Don maintains his disguise by wearing blackface. Even so, he is nearly caught out by Ginger; hurriedly putting on a costume to hide his face, Don has to invent a masquerade party as a reason, and invites her and her troupe to attend. During the party, he tries to seduce her. When she rejects him, he is pleased, certain that she has feelings for his alter-ego. On opening night, Don has second thoughts about the humiliation the Bolivar troupe is about to face, but it is too late to do anything about it. When "Harry Mann" cannot be found, Don offers to take his place. All goes as Wingate had anticipated; the audience laughs wildly, as the confused actors continue performing. At the end, Ginger finally realizes what is going on and berates the audience, then walks out into the rain. When Don follows to console her, the rain washes away his makeup and reveals his true identity. She and her father return to their old work. A contrite Don shows up at the audition for a replacement actor. Though Ginger turns away from him, he follows her into the tent and takes her in his arms.'
'drama','Leslie Hatton, a poor farmer, becomes a captain and a war hero in World War I. While on a leave, he secretly marries Rose, the "village belle", but he only has time for a few kisses and a hug before he has to return to the fighting. After the Armistice, Major Hatton comes home, only to be told by Marvin Swallow that his wife''s parents have had their marriage annulled, as she was not of age. Rose married wealthy Lon Henderson and the couple went abroad. Les returns to farming. One day, the Hendersons return. Rose, disillusioned by Lon''s repeated infidelity, throws herself at Les. He weakens and embraces her, but then Lon shows up. The two men struggle when Lon pulls out a gun. Fortunately no one is hurt, and Les invents a French wife on her way to the farm so he will be left alone. He goes to Ellis Island in search of a real wife. An official directs him to Catherine and her parents, poor would-be immigrants who are facing deportation. He offers to marry her in exchange for the family being allowed to settle in America. Her parents strongly oppose the bargain, but she accepts. That night, Catherine is prepared to share her bed with her husband, but sensing her resigned attitude, Les decides at the last minute to sleep alone in another room. They gradually fall in love. Meanwhile, Lon decides to break off his affair with young Jessie Peebles. When Marvin asks her to marry him, she asks for a little time to consider. Les later finds her lifeless body in a pond on his farm. Lon, a member of the local Ku Klux Klan-like Order, insinuates that Les must have had something to do with Jessie''s suicide. Les is taken at gunpoint to face vigilante justice. The head of the Order sends for Lon, but decides in his absence that the evidence is overwhelming, and Les is tied up and whipped. The men sent to fetch Lon find him dead in his office and Marvin hiding with a gun. They take him back to the Order meeting. He denies having killed Lon and produces Lon''s love letters to Jessie, exonerating Les. The head of the Order rules that, even if Marvin did not kill Lon, he would have been justified to do so. One of his men stages it to look like suicide. (Judge Peebles, Jessie''s father, is shown at home, unloading and cleaning his gun. One cartridge has been discharged.)'
'comedy','Fannie Brand (Fanny Brice), an industrious girl who supports her brother and sister by working in a theatrical costume house, falls in love with Joe Halsey (Guinn "Big Boy" Williams), a young fellow who earns a precarious living demonstrating an elastic exerciser in a drugstore window. Fannie and Joe set a date to be married, but the wedding is called off when Fannie finds Joe making love[clarification needed] to her unprincipled sister, Edna (Edna Murphy). Fannie auditions for Landau (Andrés De Segurola), a theatrical producer, and goes on the Broadway stage. Fannie is a great success, and she and Joe soon find their way back into each other''s arms.'
'romance, drama','In Vienna, Captain Karl von Raden (Conrad Nagel) purchases a returned ticket to a sold-out opera and finds himself sharing a loge with a lovely woman (Greta Garbo). Though she repulses his first advance, she does spend an idyllic day with him in the countryside. Karl is called away to duty, however. Colonel Eric von Raden (Edward Connelly), his uncle and the chief of the secret police, gives him secret plans to deliver to Berlin. He also warns his nephew that the woman is Tania Fedorova, a Russian spy. Tania comes to him aboard the train, professing to love him, but he tells her he knows who she is. Dejected, she leaves. The next morning, when Karl wakes up, he finds the plans have been stolen. As a result, he is sentenced to military degradation and imprisonment for treason. However, Colonel von Raden visits him in prison and arranges for his release. He sends his nephew to Warsaw, posing as a Serbian pianist, to seek out the identity of the real traitor and thus exonerate himself. In Warsaw, by chance, Karl is asked to play at a private party where he once again crosses paths with Tania. She is being escorted by General Boris Alexandroff (Gustav von Seyffertitz), the infatuated head of the Russian Military Intelligence Department. Foolhardily, Karl plays a tune from the opera they attended together. She recognizes it, but does not betray him. As the party goers are leaving, she slips away for a few stolen moments with her love. The jealous Alexandroff suspects their feelings for each other. He hires Karl to play the next day at a ball he is giving at his mansion for Tania''s birthday. While Alexandroff and Tania are alone in his home office, he receives a parcel containing the latest secrets stolen by the traitor, whom he casually identifies as Max Heinrich. Later, Tania steals the documents, gives them to Karl, and sends him out via a secret passage. However, it is all a trap. Alexandroff comes in and tells Tania that what she stole was mere blank paper; he shows her the real documents. He pulls out a gun and announces that he intends to use it on Karl, who has been captured outside. She struggles with Alexandroff and manages to fatally shoot him; the sound goes unheard amidst the merriment of the party. When the guards bring the prisoner, she pretends the general is still alive and wants to see him alone. She and Karl escape with the incriminating documents and get married.'
'comedy','Rosalind McGill (White) is a cloak room girl falls for a rich boy (Mulhall) who may not actually be rich.'
'drama','On the night of 1 August 1914, Commander Corlaix of the French Navy and his wife, Yvonne, arrange a shipboard dinner for the officers of his cruiser. Afterward, Lieutenant D''Artelle asks Yvonne to stay on board with him, and when Corlaix (learning by classified wireless that war has been declared) abruptly orders her from the ship, she goes instead with D''Artelle to his cabin. The ship is sunk by a torpedo, and Corlaix is brought before the Admiralty Court on charges of incompetence. Yvonne comes forward to testify and, by compromising herself, proves her husband''s adherence to duty. Corlaix, realizing Yvonne''s great love for him, forgives her for her indiscretions, and they are reunited.'
'drama','The film opens after the great flood, with Noah and his family outside of the Ark praising the Lord. Then comes depictions of the building of the Tower of Babel and the worshipping of the golden calf. Then it switches to the eve of World War I. The theme of the gold calf is carried forward by a scene in which a bankrupted trader (Otto Hoffman) shoots his uncaring stockbroker. In 1914, American playboy Travis (George O''Brien) and his New York taxi driver buddy Al (Guinn ''Big Boy'' Williams) are traveling aboard the "Oriental Express" train. Travis helps a pious minister (Paul McAllister) reclaim his seat from a rude fellow passenger. A washed-out bridge causes a deadly derailment. Travis and Al rescue Marie (Dolores Costello), a German member of a small theatrical troupe, from underneath the wreckage with the help of a prisoner (Malcolm Waite) who had just unhandcuffed himself from a now-dead escort. At the nearby lodge where they take shelter, fellow survivor Nickoloff (Noah Beery), an officer in the Russian Secret Service, tries to sneak into Marie''s room. When Travis objects, a fight breaks out, during which Nickoloff is cut on the hand by a bottle he was wielding. They are interrupted by French soldiers, who announce that war has broken out. Travis, Al and Marie sneak away in the confusion and head to Paris together. Travis and Marie fall in love. When America enters the war, Al enlists as soon as he can. Travis tells him he cannot, as he has married Marie. However, when he later sees Al marching with his unit down the streets of Paris, he impulsively joins up as well. He loses touch with his wife. Travis and Al meet by chance in the trenches. They are each assigned a squad to attack a machine gun nest holding up the American offensive. Tragically, Travis tosses a hand grenade into the position, not knowing that Al had captured it moments before. Al is fatally wounded, but lives long enough to bid his friend adieu. Later, Nickoloff spots Marie in a group of dancers entertaining the troops. He threatens to have her arrested as a German spy unless she meets him later. When she tries to sneak away, he carries through his threat, and she is sentenced to face a firing squad. She is comforted by the minister from the train. Travis, who by chance is part of the squad, recognizes her in the nick of time. Then the couple and others are trapped below a demolished building by a German artillery barrage. The minister compares the war and its flood of blood to the biblical story of Noah''s Ark. The film reverts to that time, with the actors playing second roles. King Nephilim (Beery) has converted his subjects into worshippers of the god Jaghuth. Only Noah (McAllister) and his family remain faithful to Jehovah. Following Jehovah''s command, Noah and his three sons (O''Brien, Williams and Waite) begin building the Ark on a mountainside. Nephilim orders the sacrifice of the most beautiful virgin in his realm to his god in a month. His soldiers choose Miriam (Costello), a handmaiden of Noah''s. When Noah''s son Japheth (O''Brien) tries to save her, he is blinded and set to labor turning a stone-mill with other prisoners. Just as Miriam is about to be slain, Jehovah unleashes his wrath, with the great flood destroying and drowning everything in its path. Among the chaos, Japheth, freed from his chains, finds and carries Miriam back to the Ark, where Jehovah restores his sight. Nephilim tries to climb aboard the Ark, only to have the door slam on his hand, inflicting the same injuries Nickoloff suffered. Returning to World War I, the trapped group is freed. Soon after they emerge, they learn that the Armistice has been signed and the war is over.'
'drama','A man is put on trial for the murder on his best friend. A young attorney wants to become successful and decides to defend him. However, he is very inexperienced.'
'melodrama','"Dangerous Diana" Medford (Crawford) is outwardly flamboyant and popular but inwardly virtuous and idealistic, patronizing her parents by telling them not to stay out late. Her friend Ann chases boys for their money and is as amoral as her mother. Diana and Ann are both attracted to Ben Blaine (Brown). He takes Diana''s flirtatious behavior with other boys as a sign of lack of interest in him and marries Ann, who has lied about her virtues. Bea, a mutual friend of Diana and Ann, also meets and marries a wealthy suitor who loves her but is haunted by her past. Diana becomes distraught for a while about the marriage of her friends with questionable pasts. She decides to go away and Bea throws a party for her, which Ben declined to attend and made Ann decline as well. The same evening Ann hopes to meet up with her lover, Freddie, telling her husband she is going to see her sick mom. When her mom calls and Ben realizes Ann has lied to him yet again they get into an argument and Ann storms out to meet Freddie. Now alone, Ben decides to stop by the party where he and Diana realize their love for each other. Meanwhile, a drunk Ann follows Freddie into the party only to find Ben and Diana. She makes a drunken scene in which both Diana and Ben leave the party declaring their love but saying their goodbyes to each other. Bea''s husband comes home to find Bea trying to get a drunken Ann home. As Ann is mocking cleaning ladies and her life (as her mom did), she stumbles and falls to her death down a flight of stairs. Headlines show Diana returning home after a lengthy time away and she and Ben are free to unite.'
'historical','In 18th-Century Russia, the Czar, Paul, is surrounded by murderous plots and trusts only Count Pahlen. Pahlen wishes to protect his friend, the mad king, but because of the horror of the king''s acts, he feels that he must remove him from the throne. Stefan, whipped by the czar for not having the correct number of buttons on his gaiters, joins with the count in the plot. The crown prince is horrified by their plans and warns his father, who, having no love for his son, places him under arrest for his foolish accusations. Pahlen uses his mistress, the Countess Ostermann, to lure the czar into the bedroom, where she tells the czar of the plot. The czar summons Pahlen, who reassures him of his loyalty. Later that night the count and Stefan enter his bedroom, and presently the czar is dead. But moments later Stefan turns a pistol on Pahlen. As the count lies dying on the floor, the countess appears and embraces Pahlen as he says, "I have been a bad friend and lover—but I have been a Patriot."'
'drama','Tasia (Dolores del Río), a beautiful dancer lower class of Russia, falls heir to the throne Prince, Grand Duke Eugene (Charles Farrell), but only admired from a distance. At the outbreak of the Russian Revolution, the Duke falls in captivity and this allows Tasia be near him.'
'comedy','A free-spirited young girl has three middle-aged admirers, each of whom sees her from a completely different perspective. Unknown to her, they also happen to be the guardians of a wealthy young man to whom she is attracted.'
'drama','A smoking, drinking, jazz listening, young prostitute named Sadie Thompson (Gloria Swanson) arrives at Pago Pago (now part of American Samoa), on her way to a job with a shipping line on another island. At the same time, ''moralists'' arrive, including Mr. and Mrs. Davidson (Lionel Barrymore and Blanche Friderici). They all end up staying in the same hotel, where the Davidsons plot to teach the natives about sin and Sadie entertains a bunch of Marines. Sadie begins to fall in love with Sergeant Timothy O''Hara (Raoul Walsh), who is not fazed by her past. He tells her that he has a best friend who married a former prostitute, and the couple now live happily in Australia. Davidson sets about trying to redeem Sadie, much to her disgust. He tricks her into telling him about her past in San Francisco and, once she refuses to repent, he declares that he will go to the Governor and have her deported. Sadie is terrified of the threat, but O''Hara assures her that it will not happen. He tells her he wishes she would go to Australia and wait for his term of service to finish, after which they can get married. She agrees. Davidson gets his way, however, and Sadie is livid. She and O''Hara go to the Governor, begging him to let her go to Australia instead of back to San Francisco. Davidson has also managed to get O''Hara punished for being immoral, but Sadie will be able to go to Australia instead if Davidson approves. Sadie pleads with him, but to no avail. She eventually confesses that, if she goes back to San Francisco, there is "a man there who won''t let her go straight", which is what she wants to do. Davidson figures out this means that there is a warrant for her arrest back in San Francisco. Sadie claims that she was framed and is innocent, but will go to prison if she is sent back. Davidson still refuses, saying she must atone for her past. Sadie pleads and pleads and eventually offers to repent. Davidson, however, says that the only way to fully repent is for her to go to prison. Sadie runs to her room, crying out for Davidson. Davidson returns and Sadie confesses she is afraid. Davidson then tells her that, if she repents, there will be nothing to fear and he begins to pray with her. Sadie converts to Christianity. Sadie prays for three whole days. She has put away her old things and has become a modest woman. O''Hara returns and finds Davidson is gone, apparently "trying to stop the locals from dancing on the beach". O''Hara tells Sadie that he has a fishing boat waiting to take her and her things to a ship that will then take her to Australia, where they can marry and be free. Sadie is extremely afraid and refuses to go, saying that the "old Sadie is dead" and she must go to San Francisco and prison, to repent. O''Hara does everything he can, including forcibly taking her from the room, but Davidson is waiting outside. O''Hara tries to attack him, but Sadie asks him not to. O''Hara, extremely upset, leaves and Sadie pleads with Davidson not to get him in trouble, for "it was all her fault". Later that night, Sadie is asleep and everyone else is heading to bed. Davidson can not sleep and goes out for a walk in the rain. (It has rained almost continuously.) His wife says he cannot sleep for "the unpleasant dreams he''s been having about Miss Thompson". A fellow boarder suspects they are not "all that unpleasant". Outside, Davidson struggles with himself and realizes that he is sexually attracted to Sadie and unable to handle it. He looks into her window and eventually returns to his room. Sadie, frightened because she heard noises, is waiting in Davidson''s room. Davidson is shocked and sends her back to her room. The last reel is missing, but fishermen find Davidson''s body. He has committed suicide. Sadie and O''Hara reconcile and head for Australia.'
'drama','Doug Caswell (Arthur Rankin) falls for Irene Gordon (Margaret Livingston). Irene happens to be the mistress of his wealthy father, John Caswell (Francis X. Bushman), and it''s up to Doug''s stepmother, Helen (Helene Chadwick) to put things right.'
'comedy','George (George O''Brien) is a sailor and smooth-talking lady''s man who believes in the adage "love ''em and leave ''em" when it comes to women. While on leave in Morocco, George meets Lorette (Lois Moran), a fiery French dancing girl who falls madly in love with him, unaware that he has a girl in every port. Initially thinking of her as just another diversion, George soon discovers that he can''t get rid of the girl. Later, she follows him to the United States, but does his best to avoid her. Amused by George''s predicament and feeling sorry for the girl, his two best friends, Tom (Noah Young) and Jerry (Tom Dugan), shanghai him aboard a vessel and arrange things so that George is unable to avoid Lorette. As a result, the hero surrenders to the inevitable and marries the girl.'
'comedy','Dixie Dugan, a Brooklyn cutie, goes to the offices of theatrical producers Eppus and Kibbitzer and exposes her perfections in a bathing suit. Eppus and Kibbitzer express interest in her future and arrange for her to work in a nightclub act with Álvarez Romano. One evening Dixie accompanies wealthy sugardaddy Jack Milton to his apartment, and Álvarez stalks in and wounds Milton with a knife. Jimmy Doyle, a cynical tabloid reporter in love with Dixie, gets the story for his newspaper''s front page. Dixie is then kidnaped by Álvarez, but quickly manages to free herself. Jimmy persuades her to hide low as a publicity stunt and puts the "kidnaping" on page one. Dixie is found by Milton, who, by way of apology for ruining her stunt, finances her in a Broadway show written by Jimmy. The show is a success, and Jimmy and Dixie are married.'
'comedy','Young Peggy Pepper (Marion Davies) wants to be in motion pictures, so her father (Dell Henderson) drives her across the country from their home in Georgia to Hollywood. After some initial disillusionment, she meets Billy Boone (William Haines) in a studio commissary; he tells her to show up at his set if she wants work. Peggy goes, gets sprayed with seltzer water at her first entrance, and is at first shocked and dismayed to find she is doing slapstick comedy in low-budget "Comet" productions, but she decides to "take it on the chin" and, with Billy''s loving support, becomes a success. Soon enough, Peggy is signed to a contract by the prestigious "High Art" studio and, as "Patricia Pepoire", becomes a real movie star. She has fulfilled her dream of playing serious, dramatic roles, but she cuts off contact with Billy and the old comedy troupe, and soon becomes so conceited that her boring performances begin to drive away her public. Fortunately, on the day of her marriage to her co-star, phony-count Andre Telfair (Paul Ralli), Billy bursts in and, by means of another spritz of seltzer in her face, as well as a custard pie in Andre''s, brings her to her senses, rescuing her career and their mutual happiness.'
'drama','A group of Westerners seek oil in Latin America, fighting over their claims and the local prostitute. When glamorous Sibyl (Brent) appears, "Lucky" Cardan (Bancroft) warns her that no woman can stay "decent" in "this country".'
'melodrama','After years of hopeful struggle, Al Stone (Jolson) is on his way. "I''m Sittin'' on Top of the World", he sings to an appreciative speakeasy crowd. But, as Al discovers, getting there is one thing. Staying there is another. Singing waiter Stone gets his huge break on a magical night when his song wows a big-time producer and a gold-digging showgirl he fancies. Broadway success and marriage follow, but sure enough, hard times are on the way. Al''s fickle wife abandons him, taking the beloved son he calls Sonny Boy with her. Heartbroken, Al becomes a devastated loner until friends from the speakeasy that launched his career rescue him from a life on the streets. Soon, Al is back in lights. But another crisis awaits: Sonny Boy is in the hospital and dying.'
'comedy','A self-centered polo player (Haines) has to redeem himself after he is kicked off the U.S. team.'
'comedy','Jerry McGuire (William Collier Jr.) is a dress designer who is tired of being looked upon as a wimp. He begins secretly training as a boxer to take on Spike Mullins (Johnnie Walker) and win the affections of store clerk Hilda Jensen (Shirley Mason).[2]'
'comedy','Everybody in New York City "is in such a hurry that they take Saturday''s bath on Friday so they can do Monday''s washing on Sunday". But in one slower-paced, "old-fashioned corner of the city", Pop Dillon (Burt Woodruff) owns and operates the city''s last horse-drawn streetcar. His granddaughter Jane Dillon (Ann Christy) is in love with Harold "Speedy" Swift (Harold Lloyd). Speedy, an avid New York Yankees fan, is working at a soda shop. As well as doing his work, he takes frequent telephone calls during Yankees games and passes the line scores on to the kitchen staff by arranging food items in a display case (such as doughnuts for zeroes). But he loses the job after he is ordered to deliver some flowers and lets someone close a car door on them when he gets distracted by a display of baseball scores in a shop window. Streetcar magnate W.S. Wilton (Byron Douglas) comes to Pop''s home to ask for his price to sell the car line, but Speedy spots a newspaper article and realizes that this is part of a plan to form a streetcar monopoly in the city. He surreptitiously raises Pop''s written price from $10,000 to $70,000. Wilton angrily refuses and threatens to force Pop out instead. Speedy is unworried about being unemployed; he is very much used to losing jobs and finding new ones. He and Jane go to Coney Island, where they greatly enjoy themselves despite various mishaps, such as Speedy ruining his suit jacket by leaning against wet paint. On the way home along with a stray dog that decided to follow them, Speedy proposes to Jane, but she will not marry him until her grandfather''s affairs are settled. Speedy is hired as a taxi driver, but for some time a series of mishaps prevents him from actually taking a passenger, and he antagonizes a policeman. Then, to his delight, Babe Ruth (playing himself) hails the cab to get to Yankee Stadium. Although terrified by Speedy''s driving, he offers Speedy a ticket to the game; but the taxi owner is there, sees Speedy in the seats when he should be working, and fires him. At the stadium, Speedy happens to overhear Wilton on the telephone. Wilton has learned that if Pop fails to operate the horsecar every 24 hours he will lose his right to the line, and orders goons to be sent to disrupt the operation. Speedy rushes home and arranges with small-business owners on the street to organize a defense. The goons are beaten off with the help of Speedy''s dog, but return and steal the horse and car. Again helped by his dog, Speedy finds out where the car has been taken and manages to steal it back. In a madcap chase scene, he brings it back across the city to Pop''s tracks, stealing fresh horses, tricking police to avoid being stopped, and replacing a broken wheel with a manhole cover. When Wilton sees the horsecar in place, he agrees to meet Pop''s price. Speedy says that Pop is a bit deaf and won''t hear him until he offers $100,000. Wilton agrees, and Speedy suggests to Jane that they plan a visit to Niagara Falls by horsecar.'
'comedy','William "Steamboat Bill" Canfield is the owner and captain of a paddle steamer that has seen better days. He eagerly awaits the arrival of his college student son, whom he has not seen since the lad was a baby. Expecting a big, husky man like himself to help him compete with businessman John James King and his brand new, luxurious riverboat, he is sorely disappointed with his slight, awkward offspring, who shows up with a pencil moustache, a ukulele and a beret. He becomes outraged when he discovers that his son and King''s daughter Kitty, also visiting her father, are in love. Both business rivals are determined to break up the relationship. When Canfield''s ship is condemned as unsafe, he accuses King of orchestrating it. He assaults his enemy and is put in jail. His son tries to free him by bringing him a loaf of bread with tools hidden inside, but his scheme is detected. The sheriff hits Canfield Jr. on the head, sending him to the hospital. Then a cyclone hits, tearing down buildings and endangering the ships. As Canfield Jr. makes his way through the town, a building front falls all around him. He reaches his father''s ship and rescues first Kitty (stranded on a floating house), then his father (by ramming the ship into the sinking jail, which has also been blown into the river), and finally Kitty''s father. When Kitty goes to her hero, she is puzzled when he jumps into the water. However, his purpose becomes clear when he returns, towing a minister in a lifebuoy.'
'comedy','The young brother of two police officers borrows one of their uniforms. While masquerading as a cop, he accidentally assists a group of criminals committing a burglary. Fortunately he is able to capture the culprits and deliver them to the real police.'
'melodrama','A spirited young woman (Gaynor) tries to steal money to help pay for her ill mother''s medicine. She is caught in the act, runs away from punishment, and finds her mother dead. Destitute and on the streets, she joins a traveling carnival, where she meets a vagabond painter (Farrell). Though they fall in love, her past will not leave her alone.'
'drama','Two sailor buddies have their friendship torn apart after the woman they both are in love with chooses one over the other. Their relationship gets re-evaluated when one of them becomes trapped in a submarine and the other gets sent on the rescue mission.'
'crime','Rose Shannon (Dolores Costello), a dancing girl at "Kelly''s," in the "Tenderloin" district of New York City, worships at a distance Chuck White (Conrad Nagel), a younger member of the gang that uses it as their hangout. Chuck''s interest in her is as just another toy to play with. Rose is implicated in a crime which she knows nothing about. The police pick her up, and the gang sends Chuck to take care of her in the event she may know or disclose something that will implicate the gang.'
'mystery','"The Terror", a killer whose identity is unknown, occupies an English country house that has been converted into an inn. Guests, including the spiritualist Mrs. Elvery and detective Ferdinand Fane, are frightened by strange noises and mysterious organ music. Connors and Marks, two men just released from jail, have sworn revenge upon "The Terror". Following a night of mayhem that includes murder, the identity of "The Terror" is revealed.[1]'
'comedy','Molly Kelly (Viola Dana) intends to marry a millionaire. When she meets Andy Charles, Jr. (Ralph Graves), heir to a restaurant fortune, she sees her chance and marries him. Upon discovering the marriage, Andy''s father (Burr McIntosh) becomes irate and disinherits his son. Andy attempts life as a ditch-digger to support his wife, but the results are not what he had hoped for.'
'comedy drama','A nightclub singer sets her sights on a young man she believes to be a millionaire playboy, although he is in reality only an insurance agent.'
'historical','Lord Alwin (LeRoy Mason), Earl of Northumbria, is captured in a Viking raid and taken to Norway as a slave. There he is bought by Helga (Pauline Starke), an "orphan of noble blood" under the guardianship of Leif Ericsson (Donald Crisp). He proves a troublesome slave, and Leif''s sailing master, Egil the Black (Harry Woods), prepares to kill him for his insolence, but Helga stops him. When Alwin challenges Egil to a sword fight, Leif is impressed by his courage and permits it. Alwin manages to break Egil''s sword, but spares him. Helga then gives Alwin to Leif. Leif, with the support of King Olaf (Roy Stewart), the first Christian king of Norway, sets out to search for lands beyond Greenland, which was discovered by his pagan father, Eric the Red (Anders Randolf). Back in Greenland, Eric kills one of his men after he discovers the man is a Christian. When Leif stops there to pick up supplies, Eric gives his blessing for his marriage to Helga (unbeknownst to her). However, after it is revealed that Leif is himself a Christian, Eric disowns him and refuses to give him any supplies. Fighting breaks out after Leif instructs Alwin to take the supplies anyway. In the confusion, Helga stows away on Leif''s ship. Leif has no choice but to take her along. During the voyage, she and Alwin confess their love for each other. Unaware of this, Leif informs her that he will marry her on the "second change of the moon". Egil, in love with Helga himself, foments a mutiny among the crew, who fear sailing off the edge of the world. When Egil prepares to stab Leif in the back during the wedding ceremony, Alwin leaps in the way and is wounded. Leif kills Egil, but is enraged when Helga reveals that she loves Alwin. He raises his sword to kill the unconscious Alwin, but his Christian faith stops him. Just then, land is sighted, and the mutiny dissolves. Leif steps ashore bearing a makeshift cross. He has a stone tower built and makes friends with the natives. When Leif leaves for home, Alwin, Helga and a few others remain behind. A final, ''modern day,'' scene, with God Bless America sung in the background, implies that the stone tower still stands somewhere in a coastal city on the northeast coast of America.'
'comedy','The Boys (Stan and Oliver) are trying to attend a poker game. When they get a phone call telling them their absence is holding up the game, Oliver tell their wives they have a business engagement at the Orpheum Theater. They then sneak off to their poker game. En route, they gallantly stop to assist two young ladies retrieve a hat that has blown under a parked car. They end up being soaked by a passing street-cleaning vehicle while trying to retrieve it. The girls invite them up to their apartment while their clothes dry. One of the females becomes very amorous with Stan. They all proceed to get buzzed from beer. A large boyfriend of one of the females appears at the apartment, sending the duo scrambling out the back window, in full view of their wives who have already seen a newspaper headline announcing that the Orpheum Theater had been gutted by a fire. The boys return home and are quietly grilled to explain what they saw at the show. After their attempt to describe what they saw, they too see the newspaper headline about the Orpheum Theater fire, thus destroying their alibi. Their wives chase them through an alley with a shotgun. One blast of causes about a dozen cheating husbands to scurry out of various windows with fright.'
'melodrama','In Vienna in 1914, Prince Nicki is the scion of a rundown noble family and is commander of a cavalry regiment. During a parade in front of the St. Stephen''s Cathedral, Nicki notices beautiful innkeeper''s daughter Mitzi in the crowd. Mitzi is eating with her family as her butcher fiance Schani grotesquely spits and embarrasses the entire family. Nicki and Mitzi flirt with each during the parade. During a gun salute Nicki''s horse becomes afraid and injures Mitzi, who is sent to the hospital. Nicki also has Schani arrested at this time. Nicki visits Mitzi at the hospital and later in the pub where she works as a harpist. They begin to go on dates and fall in love. Knowing of his family''s financial troubles, Nicki is approached by a wealthy factory owner to marry his daughter Cecilia in exchange for a noble title. Nicki initially refuses but finally agrees to marry Cecilia. Schani is released from prison and finds out about the relationship between Mitzi and Nicki, and shows Mitzi a newspaper article announcing the marriage of Nicki and Cecilia. Mitzi remains calm and tells Schani that she hates him and still loves Nicki. Enraged Schani tries to rape Mitzi, but his father prevents it at the last moment. Schani decides to murder Nicki after the wedding. The marriage of Nicki and Cecilia is celebrated. Schani is waiting for Nicki with a gun at the church. At the last moment Mitzi appears and promises to marry Schani if he does not kill Nicki. Nicki and Cecilia get into their coach and drive away. The Honeymoon depicts the honeymoon of Prince Nicki in the Alps, and the wedding of Mitzi and Schani. Mitzi still loves Nicki, and jealous Schani decides once again to kill the prince. Schani shoots at Nicki, but Cecilia throws herself in front of Nicki. Schani becomes a fugitive and goes into hiding. Nicki and Mitzi meet one last time, where Mitzi tells Nicki that she will go to a convent. Nicki goes off to war, where he is killed.'
'melodrama','Anna (Jacqueline Gadsden) cannot bring herself to tell her professional magician husband, Phroso (Lon Chaney), that she is leaving him. Her lover, Crane (Lionel Barrymore), informs Phroso that he is taking Anna to Africa, shoving the distraught husband away so forcefully that he falls over a railing and is crippled, losing the use of his legs. After a year, Phroso learns that Anna has returned. He finds his wife dead in a church, with a baby beside her. He swears to avenge himself on both Crane and the child. Eighteen years later, Phroso rules a small outpost inhabited by Doc (Warner Baxter), Babe (Kalla Pasha), Tiny (Tiny Ward) and native Bumbu (Curtis Nero) in the African jungle. Through his magic tricks, he dominates the local tribe. He has his men steal ivory repeatedly from Crane by having Tiny dress up as an evil voodoo spirit to frighten away Crane''s porters. Meanwhile, Phroso sends Babe to bring back blonde Maizie (Mary Nolan) from the "lowest dive in Zanzibar", where Phroso has had her raised. She is told only that she will finally meet her father. When she arrives, Phroso denies being Maisie''s father (to her great relief), but refuses to tell her why she has been brought there and treats her with undisguised hatred. The first night, she witnesses a gruesome tribal custom: when a man dies, his wife or daughter is burned alive on his funeral pyre. As the days go by, Maizie gradually wins the perpetually drunk Doc''s heart. However, Phroso turns her into an alcoholic. Phroso sends word to Crane where he can find the robber of his ivory. When Crane shows up, Phroso tells Crane that Maizie is his daughter. To Phroso''s surprise, Crane breaks out in laughter. He informs Phroso that Anna never went with him because she hated him for paralyzing her husband. Maizie is actually Phroso''s child. Before he can absorb the news, the next step of his plan unfolds; the natives shoot and kill Crane. Phroso uses a magic trick to try to save Maisie from being burned alive. With the natives watching, he puts her in a wooden box with a secret exit and closes it. When he reopens it, there is a skeleton inside. Meanwhile, Doc, Maizie and the others flee by boat. However, the natives do not believe Phroso''s claim that an evil spirit has taken Maizie. The screen fades to black as the natives close in on Phroso. Later, a native fishes a medallion out of a bonfire, the same medallion that had hung around Phroso''s neck.'
'romance','Arrogant and wise-cracking Brice Wayne (William Haines) enrolls at the United States Military Academy at West Point and adjusts to life as a plebe. He tries out for the plebe football team, where he excels and shows up the varsity team. However, his ego is unrivaled, especially in competition with upperclassman Bob Sperry (Neil Neely). At the same time, Brice meets a local girl named Betty Channing (Joan Crawford) who cheers for him at football practices. A year later, Brice is the star football player for West Point. By this time, both Sperry and Brice are in love with Betty, and while Sperry acts like a gentleman towards Betty, Brice forces a kiss on Betty, only for her to spurn him. Betty continues to reject Brice''s advances. When he is benched for his attitude, Brice decries favoritism by Coach Towers (Raymond G. Moses) to the local paper. After an altercation with the coach in the locker room, Brice shouts "to hell with the Corps" and quits the team in a huff. This causes a scandal among the cadets, who move to have the Cadet Honor Committee "Silence" Brice. Brice''s roommate Tex McNeil (William Bakewell) tries to reason with him but the angered Brice hits him. Immediately regretting his actions, Brice tries to help. After Brice leaves to contemplate his actions in private, Tex accidentally falls down a flight of stairs. Despite this he pleads with the Honor Committee not to censure Brice—before collapsing with a serious concussion. Brice writes a letter of resignation from West Point out of shame, but regrets his action when he realizes he needs to help the team. As the train carrying the team to the Army-Navy Game is about to leave, Brice is called before the superintendent. When he indicates both his contrition and an understanding of the "spirit of the Corps," the superintendent hands him back his resignation. Brice apologizes to the coach for his behavior but is still benched. In the 4th quarter, with Army down, a player is injured and Brice is sent in. Despite an injured arm he scores a touchdown that wins the game for Army, and asks for forgiveness from his team. As graduation from West Point concludes some years later, he ends in the arms of Betty while enthusiastically observing the traditions of the Corps.'
'romantic comedy','Daniels, in her final silent film,[3] plays Dorothy Winston, an heiress who sets out to become a newspaper reporter and, when she breaks a big story, finds herself in peril.[4]'
'crime drama','The film focuses on the ''Plain Clothes Men'', a group of detectives dressed up as average citizens to catch criminals without being noticed. They are especially hated by the underworld due to their constant meeting, during which suspects are analyzed and interrogated extensively. Among the staff is Dan Coghlan (Lon Chaney), a police officer with flat feet and a tough disposition, who is unsatisfied with the lack of adventure. As he is about to quit his job, he is noticed about a croaked jeweler. When arriving there, he finds Skeeter Carlson (Wheeler Oakman), a crook who never gets busted for a crime due to a lack of evidence. Dan decides to follow him, and after talking to Skeeter''s low-life girlfriend Bessie (Mae Busch) without gaining any information, he prevents Skeeter from seducing Myrtle Sullivan (Anita Page), an innocent flapper who finds excitement in hanging out with crooks. Dan has lately assigned himself as Myrtle''s care-taker, and he disapproves of her boyfriend Marty (Carroll Nye), a dapper gangster without a job. When Skeeter is out of town for two days, Dan graps this opportunity to manipulate Bessie. After convincing her that Skeeter will soon dump her for Myrtle, Bessie admits that he croaked the jeweler. Without wasting any time, Dan sets out to bust Skeeter and his men, only to find out that one of them is Marty. Shortly after, Bessie''s body is found, and Dan is convinced that Skeeter is responsible for her death, considering that she was going to testify against him. The case against Skeeter is dismissed by the court, and he immediately reveals his plans on murdering Marty. Dan overhears this conversation, and hurries to Marty for protection, only to catch him in the midst of a robbery. Even though he is able to turn him in, Dan orders the police to leave Marty alone and helps him to take his first, tentative steps on the straight path. Before leaving town, Marty wants to meet Myrtle one more time and sends her a letter, but Skeeter reads it before she can. He forces himself up to her, but is disturbed by police raid. Before they open the door, Skeeter fires a shot through it - which croaks a cop - and gets away. Upon finding out that she will testify against him, Skeeter sets out to kill her. Meanwhile, Dan tells Myrtle against better judgment that he loves her and then proposes to her. Even though she is actually in love with Marty, Myrtle accepts, mostly out of gratitude for all that Dan has done for her. Afterwards, Dan leaves to find Skeeter, and catches him and his men preparing for a get-away. It results in a giant shootout, during which several policemen and gangsters are killed. Skeeter''s men give in after being attacked by tear bombs, but Skeeter finds a way to escape to the rooftop. Dan follows him there, and after another shootout, Skeeter is killed. Meanwhile, Marty returns to town in rage after finding out about Dan and Myrtle''s engagement. He proposes to Myrtle, but she decides to stay loyal to Dan. Dan realizes that she loves Marty, and allows them to be together.'
'drama, adventure','Dr. Matthew Lloyd, an alcoholic doctor, is disgusted by white people''s exploitation of the natives on a Polynesian island. The natives dive for pearls. However, numerous accidents occur and one diver dies. In anger, Dr. Lloyd punches Sebastian, the employer. who then tricks Dr. Lloyd onto a ship with a diseased crew (thinking they are ill), and his men rough him up and send the ship off into a storm. Dr. Lloyd survives and is washed ashore on an island where none of the natives has ever seen a white man.'
'comedy','Louis Hozenozzle and 2d Lieut. Rodney Ramsbottom, two American soldiers, are stationed in Switzerland after World War I. Ramsbottom is in love with Colette, a pretty Swiss girl, and when he receives orders to leave Switzerland he orders Hozenozzle to remain there to protect Colette. General Lavoris, a Swiss, also desires Colette, but she spurns him. Returning home, he has a fake order issued stating that all unmarried women must immediately take husbands. At her request, Hozenozzle marries Colette. Ramsbottom then receives a letter from General Lavoris telling him that he has been doublecrossed, and the lieutenant immediately returns to Switzerland and challenges Hozenozzle to a duel. Colette intercedes, explaining that she married only to save herself from Lavoris. The mayor grants Colette a divorce from Hozenozzle, but all the suitors lose her to a handsome young major. [4]'
'drama','An impoverished young woman named Letty Mason (Lillian Gish) travels west by train from Virginia to live at her cousin Beverly''s isolated ranch in Sweetwater, Texas. On the way, she is bothered by the constantly blowing wind. Fellow passenger and cattle buyer Wirt Roddy (Montagu Love) makes her acquaintance and tells her the wind usually drives women crazy. Upon arrival, she is picked up by Beverly''s closest neighbors, Lige Hightower (Lars Hanson) and the older, balding Sourdough (William Orlamond), who live 15 miles from her cousin. Wirt assures her he will drop by occasionally to see how she is doing. After endless miles in sand and wind, they arrive at the ranch. Beverly (Edward Earle) is delighted to see her, but his jealous wife Cora (Dorothy Cumming) gives her a cold reception, despite Letty saying she and Beverly (who was raised by Letty''s mother) are like brother and sister. Cora is further angered when her children seem to like Letty better. At a party, Sourdough tells Lige that he intends proposing to Letty. Lige explains he was planning to do the same. After Wirt drops by, a cyclone interrupts the festivities. Most of the guests seek shelter in the basement, where Wirt declares his love for Letty and offers to take her away from the dismal place. After the cyclone passes, Lige and Sourdough talk to Letty in private. When they flip a coin to see who will ask for her hand in marriage (Lige wins), Letty thinks it is just a joke. Afterward, Cora demands that she leave Beverly alone and that she has to leave the ranch. Because she has neither money nor a place to go, she decides to go away with Wirt, but then Wirt reveals that he wants her for a mistress, informing her that he already has a wife. She goes back to Cora, who tells her to choose from her two other suitors. She marries Lige. When Lige takes her home, he kisses Letty for the first time, but her lack of enthusiasm is unmistakable. Worse for the drink, he becomes more forceful, and this makes her tell him that he has made her hate him, which she did not want to do. Lige promises her he will never touch her. He states he will try to make enough money to send her back to Virginia. In the meantime, Letty works around the house, but is bothered by the ever present wind. One day, Lige is invited to a meeting of the cattlemen, who must do something to avoid starvation. Letty, terrified of being left alone with only the wind for company, begs to go with him. He agrees. After she cannot control her horse in the fierce wind, he has her get on behind him on his horse. When she falls off, Lige tells Sourdough to take her home. When the cattlemen return, they bring an unwanted guest, an injured Wirt. After he recovers, Lige insists he participate in a roundup of wild horses to raise money for the cattlemen. Wirt goes along, but later sneaks away and returns to Letty. Out of her mind with fear as she endures the house shaking from the worst wind storm yet, Letty faints soon after Wirt''s arrival. He picks her up and carries her to the bed.[note 1] The next morning, Wirt tries to persuade Letty to go away with him, but she rejects him. He insists, noting Lige will kill them both if they remain. As Wirt becomes more aggressive, Letty picks up a revolver to defend herself. Confident that Letty will not fire, Wirt grabs the gun and it goes off, killing him. Letty decides to bury him outside. After she is done, the wind uncovers the body, terrifying her. When Lige returns, Letty is so glad to see him, she kisses her husband. She then confesses she killed and buried Wirt. When Lige looks outside, however, the corpse is nowhere to be seen. He tells Letty that the wind can remove traces when a killing is justified. He has enough money to send her away, but Letty declares she loves him and that she no longer wants to leave. She is no longer afraid of the wind.'
'melodrama','Diana Merrick (Greta Garbo), Neville (John Gilbert) and David (Johnny Mack Brown) were playmates as children, members of the rich British aristocracy. Diana and Neville are in love, but his father (Hobart Bosworth) opposes the match, disapproving the Merrick family''s lifestyle. Neville is sent to Egypt for business purposes and to become wealthy. Diana, after waiting in vain for two years for Neville''s return, finally marries David, who is also in love with her and good friends with her brother Jeffry (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.). During their honeymoon to Paris and after the arrival of police inspectors, David commits suicide without an explanation. Diana does not explain the reasons behind her husband''s action. Jeffry, who was deeply connected to David, blames his sister for his friend''s death; he falls deeper into alcohol as his sister starts a reckless life, seducing man after man. Years later, Neville returns to England to marry Constance (Dorothy Sebastian). Jeffry is now gravely ill, and Diana brings Dr. Trevelyan, a family friend, to his bedside and then leaves since Jeffry still refuses to see her. As she starts to drive away, she sees Neville who has followed her and Dr. Trevelyan in a cab. Diana and Neville go to his apartment, realize they are still in love, and spend that one night together. During the night Jeffry dies. Dr. Trevelyan goes to Neville''s apartment in the morning to give him the news and discovers that Diana has spent the night there. Three days later, Neville marries Constance. About nine months go by: Diana falls ill (in the script she is supposed to have suffered a miscarriage, but because of censorship, this couldn''t be mentioned) and is visited by Neville. Diana professes her love for him before realizing Constance is in the room. The reason for David''s suicide is revealed: he was a thief, pursued by the police. Diana, realizing that her and Neville''s love will ruin Neville, tells him that his wife is pregnant and sends him away. Diana drives her car into a tree, in front of which she and Neville had fallen in love and sworn eternal fidelity.'
'drama','Marian is sent to prison for a crime she did not commit. While there she meets fellow convict, Dr. Bradford, who has also been wrongly convicted of a murder. Marion believes his innocence and falls in love with him. Bradford tells her that it was Egan who framed him. Meanwhile, Egan has fallen in love with Marian, and when Marian is paroled, begins to woo her. She goes along with his romances, hoping to get the info she needs to free Bradford. However, Egan is warned of her intentions by associates who are still in the jail. When Egan confronts Marian, she admits her plan, but tells Egan of her love for Bradford. Egan, pretending to help Marian out, agrees to get Bradford released, and pays one of his henchmen, Smith, to confess to the crime for which Bradford is in prison for. Once Bradford is released, Egan attempts to leverage his role in that release, to force Marian to marry him. When she refuses, he has Bradford kidnapped, intending to have him killed. Learning of it, an armed Marian confronts Egan, and when he refuses to divulge Bradford''s whereabouts, she shoots him. Grievously wounded, Egan needs immediate medical attention. Regretting her action, she pleads with Egan to tell him where Bradford is, so that he can tend to the wound. Once Egan tells her where he has Bradford stashed, Marian rushes to free him, returning to Egan, where Bradford tends to the gunshot wound. The woman and doctor are followed by the police, who overhear Egan confessing to the murder for which Bradford was originally convicted. The wound patched, Egan is taken to jail, while Bradford and Marian end up together.'
'crime','Joan Manning, the daughter of a police sergeant, secretly marries Chick Williams, a gangleader who convinces her that he is leading an honest life. Chick attends the theater with Joan and, at the intermission, sneaks away, committing a robbery during which a policeman is killed. Chick is suspected of the crime but is able to use Joan to substantiate his alibi. The police plant Danny McGann, an undercover agent, in Chick''s gang; but he is discovered, and Chick murders him. Chick is later cornered by the police in his own home. Before they can arrest him, he flips the light switch, plunging the room into darkness. In the midst of the chaos, Chick escapes to the roof. He attempts to jump off to a nearby building, but stumbles on the landing, thus falling to his death.'
'musical','The first scene has a marching band playing Theodore Mentz''s "A Hot Time in the Old Town". The film tells of Kitty Darling (Helen Morgan), a burlesque star, who sends her young daughter to a convent to get her away from the sleazy burlesque environment she is involved in. Many years later, Kitty is not doing so well and her best days are behind her. She''s now an alcoholic who lives in the past. She lives with a burlesque comic named Hitch (Fuller Mellish Jr.). Hitch cheats on her and only cares about spending what little money she has. When he finds out she has been paying for her daughter''s convent education for over a decade, he pushes her into bringing April back home. Her grown, but naive daughter April (Joan Peers) returns. Kitty is embarrassed by her condition and marries Hitch so that April will not be ashamed of her. When April arrives, she is disgusted with her mother and her sad life. Hitch tries to force her into show business and repeatedly gropes her, at one point forcing a kiss on her. April roams the city and meets a lonely young sailor named Tony (Henry Wadsworth). They fall in love and agree to marry and April will move to his home in Wisconsin. When April goes to tell her mother about their plans she overhears Hitch belittling Kitty, calling her a "has-been." April is upset and calls off her wedding. She decides to join the chorus line of a burlesque show. She says a reluctant goodbye to Tony at the subway. Meanwhile, Kitty takes an overdose of sleeping pills. The bottle clearly says "For insomnia one tablet only". She goes downstairs to the show and collapses on a couch. Knowing that Kitty cannot perform in the show, the producer berates her, mistaking her reaction to the overdose for delirium tremens. April, also not realizing what is happening, and over Kitty''s objections, says she will take Kitty''s place. She tells Kitty she will take care of her now, like Kitty always did for April. As April goes onstage, Kitty passes away, her head hanging over the edge of the couch. April is disgusted at herself and cannot complete the show. As she runs off the stage, none other than Tony is there to greet her. He says he had a feeling she did not mean what she was saying. She hugs him close and says she wants to go far away. Not realizing Kitty is dead, she says they will need to take care of her mother too, and Tony agrees. The final shot is a close-up of the Kitty Darling poster on the wall, behind Tony and April.'
'mystery','A wealthy man is shot just as he reaches for the phone to call for the police. Suspicion falls on his ward (Lila Lee) as he has intended to change his will, which had left his entire estate to her, to share it equally with his nephew. The nephew, who is in love with Lee, calls in a private detective, who eventually finds it is the lawyer who is the criminal.'
'comedy','Brooks (William Norton Bailey), a publisher and his publicist (Lee Moran) decide to boost the sales of a wartime book of flying experiences. They credit the book to popular author Robert Street (Edward Everett Horton), who is completely ignorant about aviation. Robert gets into all sorts of trouble in attempting to carry on the ruse, saving his friend''s business but also attracting the attention of aviation-mad Grace Douglas (Patsy Ruth Miller). At first, he is able to carry out simple publicity events, but when he accidentally starts up an aircraft, his incredible aerobatics end with a landing in a haystack. When a race is staged between him and French ace Major Jules Gaillard (Armand Kaliz), it ends with Robert confessing he is no pilot, but still winning Grace''s heart.'
'comedy','The scene opens where the passenger train, hauled by No. 1373, a 4-6-2 engine, being an American Pacific type steam engine, with a coal tender, and hauling a baggage car and three coaches, pulls into the station. Stan and Ollie are musicians, who are travelling by train to their next gig in Pottsville, Pennsylvania, a very popular vaudeville performance location at the time. They manage to hop on board, but Ollie is annoyed that Stan left the music behind. They antagonize a very short man (Sammy Brooks) when they sat on him. By entering a private car looking for their berth and frightening a woman who is dressing for bed, they anger her husband who, coming out and seeing a man who had nothing to do with the intrusion, rips his coat. The man, seeing another innocent man, proceeds to tear up his coat. This leads to a tit for tat of clothes tearing with one done off-screen. Stan and Ollie spend most of the trip trying to change into pajamas and get comfortable in a cramped upper berth. By the time Laurel & Hardy manage to sort themselves out, the train has reached their stop, and in their hurry to get off, they leave their musical instruments behind. The clothes tearing battle has, by now, involved the whole train, and the conductor manages to get stripped to his underwear and some rags trying to get through. Hardy closes the film by furiously chasing Laurel and throwing a rock at him.'
'drama','Swiss peasant girl Vroni (Esther Ralston) is having a secret summer romance with Viennese artist Andre Frey (Gary Cooper). When Andre later returns to Switzerland, he learns that Vroni has been forced to marry wealthy burgomeister Poldi Moser (Emil Jannings). Explaining Andre''s appearance, Vroni introduces him as a young man who has just lost his sweetheart, and in sympathy, Poldi invites Andre to be a guest in his house. Several times over the next few years Andre visits, during which time Poldi and Vroni have two children. Andre is overwrought by his repressed feelings toward Vroni, and after seven years, begs her to run off with him. She refuses, but agrees to one last tryst. While speeding down a dangerous run on a toboggan together, Vroni is killed and Andre fatally injured. Poldi learns the truth of the relationship while attending Vroni''s funeral, and swears vengeance but discovers that Andre has died from the severity of his injuries.'
'comedy','Stan and Ollie play door-to-door Christmas tree salesmen in California – in the summer. They end up getting into an escalating feud with grumpy would-be customer James Finlayson. He, goaded by their repeated attempts to sell him a Christmas tree, destroys it with hedge-clippers. Laurel & Hardy retaliate by damaging the man''s doorframe with a knife. Finlayson then goes to work on their clothes, and this escalates, with his home and their car being destroyed in the melee (after Finlayson has run out of Christmas trees to mangle). A police officer (Tiny Sandford) steps in to stop the fight (after vases are thrown out and smashed, and one hits him on the foot) and negotiates a peaceful resolution. Stan and Ollie give the homeowner a cigar as a peace offering. However, as the pair make their escape, the trick cigar promptly explodes in his face.'
'musical','Roy Lane and Billie Moore, entertainers at the Paradise Nightclub, are in love and are rehearsing an act together. Late to work one evening, Billie is saved from dismissal by Nick Verdis, the club proprietor, through the intervention of Steve Crandall, a bootlegger, who desires a liaison with the girl. "Scar" Edwards, robbed of a truckload of contraband liquor by Steve''s gang, arrives at the club for a showdown with Steve and is shot in the back. Steve gives Billie a bracelet to forget that she has seen him helping a "drunk" from the club. Though Roy is arrested by Dan McCorn, he is later released on Billie''s testimony. Nick is murdered by Steve. Billie witnesses the killing, but keeps quiet about the dirty business until she finds out Steve''s next target is Roy. Billie is determined to tell her story to the police before Roy winds up dead, but Steve isn''t about to let that happen and kidnaps her. Steve, in his car, is fired at from a taxi, and overheard by Pearl, he confesses to killing Edwards. Pearl confronts Steve in Nick''s office and kills him; and McCorn, finding Steve''s body, insists that he committed suicide, exonerating Pearl and leaving Roy and Billie to the success of their act.'
'musical','Chorus girl Delight "Dee" Foster (Alice White) is in love with stage manager Billy Buvanny (Charles Delaney) and he also loves her. They plan to marry until bootlegger Perc Gessant (Fred Kohler) steps in. Dee is led to believe that Billy is in love with another girl, so she agrees to play around with Gessant when he becomes interested in her. When Gessant proposes marriage, Dee accepts. As they are about to be married, rival gangsters shoot Gessant and he ends up dying. Dee is reconciled with Billy and they become engaged.'
'musical comedy','Eddie Kearns (Charles King) sings "The Broadway Melody", and tells some chorus girls that he brought the Mahoney Sisters vaudeville act to New York to perform it with him in the latest revue being produced by Francis Zanfield (Eddie Kane). Harriet "Hank" Mahoney (Bessie Love) and her sister Queenie Mahoney (Anita Page) are awaiting Eddie''s arrival at their apartment. Hank, the older sister, prides herself on her business sense and talent, while Queenie is lauded for her beauty. Hank is confident they will make it big while Queenie is less eager to put everything on the line to become a star. Hank declines the offer of their Uncle Jed (Jed Prouty) to join a 30-week traveling show but consents to think it over. Eddie, who is engaged to Hank, arrives and sees Queenie for the first time since she was a girl and is instantly taken with her. He tells them to come to a rehearsal for Zanfield''s revue to present their act. A blond woman sabotages their performance by placing a bag in the piano, which causes a fight with Hank. Zanfield isn''t interested in it, but says he might have a use for Queenie, who begs him to give Hank a part as well, saying both will work for one wage. She also convinces him to pretend that Hank''s business skills won him over. Eddie witnesses this exchange and becomes even more enamored of Queenie for her devotion to her sister. During a dress rehearsal for the revue, Zanfield says the pacing is too slow for "The Broadway Melody" and cuts Hank and Queenie from the number. Meanwhile, another woman is injured after falling off a set prop and Queenie is selected to replace her. Nearly everyone is captivated by Queenie, particularly notorious playboy Jacques "Jock" Warriner (Kenneth Thomson). While Jock begins to woo Queenie, Hank is upset that Queenie is building her success on her looks rather than her talent. Over the following weeks, Queenie spends a lot of time with Jock, of which Hank and Eddie fervently disapprove. They forbid her to see him, which results in Queenie pushing them away and the deterioration of the relationship between the sisters. Queenie is only with Jock to fight her growing feelings for Eddie, but Hank thinks she''s setting herself up to be hurt. Eventually, Eddie and Queenie confess their love for each other, but Queenie, unwilling to break her sister''s heart, runs off to Jock once again. Hank, after witnessing Queenie''s fierce outburst toward Eddie and his devastated reaction to it, finally realizes that they are in love. She berates Eddie for letting Queenie run away and tells him to go after her. She claims to never have loved him and that she''d only been using him to advance her career. After he leaves, she breaks down and alternates between sobs and hysterical laughter. She composes herself enough to call Uncle Jed to accept the job with the 30-week show. There''s a raucous party at the apartment Jock had recently purchased for Queenie, but he insists that they spend time alone. When she resists his advances, he says that it''s the least that she could do after all he''s done for her. He begins to get physical, but Eddie bursts in and attempts to fight Jock, who knocks him through the door with one punch. Queenie runs to Eddie and leaves Jock and the party behind. Sometime later, Hank and Uncle Jed await the return of Queenie and Eddie from their honeymoon. The relationship between the sisters is on the mend, but there is obvious discomfort between Hank and Eddie. Queenie announces she''s through with show business and will settle down in their new house on Long Island. She insists that Hank live with them when her job is over. After Hank leaves with her new partner and Uncle Jed, Queenie laments the fact that she wasn''t able to help her sister find the happiness she deserves. Ironically, Hank''s new partner is the blond who tried to sabotage the act when the sisters first arrived in New York. The final scene shows Hank on her way to the train station. She promises her new partner that they''ll be back on Broadway within six months.'
'mystery','Hugh "Bulldog" Drummond, a demobilised British captain bored with civilian life, places a personal advertisement in The Times offering his services for "any excitement". One of the many replies intrigues him: Phyllis Benton claims she is in great danger. He immediately sets out for the Green Bay Inn, where she has reserved some rooms for him. Unable to persuade him to give up this mad adventure, his friend Algy Longworth follows after, dragging Drummond''s valet, Danny, along. Phyllis turns out to be all Drummond had hoped for: beautiful and desperately in need of help. Her wealthy uncle, John Travers, is being treated in a hospital by a Dr. Lakington for a nervous breakdown, but she is sure there is something wrong about the hospital and Dr. Lakington, and that she is being watched constantly. She runs away when she spots the outline of two eavesdropping men (Algy and Danny), much to Drummond''s annoyance. She is caught and taken to Dr. Lakington''s Nursing Home by Carl Peterson, Irma and the doctor. When Drummond follows, he witnesses Travers'' unsuccessful attempt to escape. Drummond drives away, but returns stealthily and rescues Phyllis. Sending her off with Algy and Danny, he sneaks back once more and overhears Irma convince the others to stay and try to get Travers'' signature on a document transferring securities and jewels to them. Drummond manages to save Travers. However, he makes a serious error when he takes Travers back to the inn. The villains soon arrive there. Drummond manages to disguise himself as Travers; the crooks take him back, along with Phyllis. When they realise they have the wrong man they threaten to torture Phyllis. Drummond tells them Travers is hidden at the inn (whereas he is really being driven to London). While Peterson and Irma go to check, Drummond is freed by Phyllis before Lakington can kill him. He strangles the doctor. Drummond disarms Peterson when he returns, but his gang pose as policemen and take him away. Phyllis persuades Drummond to let them go, telling him she loves him.'
'mystery','Charles Spotswoode''s son Jimmy became involved with "the Canary," a conniving star showgirl. Fortunately, Jimmy has regained his senses and reconciled with Alyce LaFosse. However, the Canary is determined to force Jimmy to marry her so she can join the social elite, threatening to reveal that Jimmy was embezzling from his father. She turns down the elder Spotswoode''s offer of money to leave Jimmy alone. She also telephones two men she has been blackmailing, Cleaver and Mannix, and demands one final generous gift from each of them by the next day. She also informs "creepy" admirer Dr. Lindquist. Her ex-husband Tony Sheel eavesdrops and wants half, but she refuses to give him anything, even after he hits her. Cleaver, Mannix and Lindquist are all shown lurking about her apartment building late that night. Spotswoode visits her at her apartment around midnight, but cannot get her to change her mind. After he reaches the lobby of her building, he and another person hear screams from her place. They knock on the door, but she assures them that she is fine. The next day, she is found strangled to death. The coroner places the time of death around midnight. District Attorney Markham investigates, aided by Philo Vance (a close friend of Charles Spotswoode) and Police Sergeant Heath. After all the prime suspects are questioned, Vance asks Markham to keep them waiting for a few hours. Markham agrees, as Vance has helped solve another case. Vance subtly maneuvers Cleaver, Mannix, Lindquist and the two Spotswoodes into playing poker to pass the time so he can observe their personality traits. Only one shows the daring, imagination and discipline required for the crime; that man bluffs Vance, betting everything with just a pair of deuces. The suspects are then released. Sheel, who was hiding in the closet, and witnessed the murder, sends the killer several blackmail letters. For his trouble, he too is strangled. A pen found at the scene has Jimmy''s name on it, so Heath arrests him for the murder. Jimmy then confesses to both murders, but Vance knows better. He telephones Charles Spotswoode with the news and suggests they meet in an hour. Spotswoode speeds to the city from his country estate to confess, but his chauffeur makes a fatal mistake by trying to beat a train to a crossing, and Spotswoode is killed. Now Vance has to show how he murdered the Canary in order to free Jimmy. Fortunately, he is able to figure out that the Canary was dead before Spotswoode left her apartment that night. Spotswoode had made a recording (Vance speculates it was Spotswoode himself pretending to be the woman) to fool a stuttering witness into believing she was alive and well. The record is still in the apartment, so Jimmy is released.'
'adventure','Lash is the head coal stoker on a steam ship whose shipmates have nicknamed "Captain". Lash somehow grabs the attention of society dame passenger Cora Nevins. Nevins is actually a jewel thief who''s lifted diamonds from wealthy passenger Arthur Condrax. She needs Lash to aid in sneaking the "ice" ashore at Singapore. Cocky is Lash''s concertina-playing buddy and uses it to signal Lash.'
'comedy','In the French colony of Cochin-China, young French magistrate Victor Gromaire (Antonio Moreno) and his wife Hélène (Billie Dove) are virtually prisoners because the colony''s president (Noah Beery) is attracted to the wife. The president blocks Victor''s career on the bench until his wife agrees to his demands. Victor, angered by this treatment after four years of hard work, secretly goes to the governor of the colony to complain. Advised by Carouge (Holmes Herbert), a prominent attorney in the colony, as to why her husband''s career has been stymied, Hélène tries to save her husband from disaster by pleading with the president, but inadvertently reveals her husband''s plan. Afraid for his safety, she consents to do whatever the president wishes, as long as he does nothing to endanger her husband. Just as he is about to take advantage of her offer, he is murdered by a native musician (Kamiyama Sojin) who has been hiding in the room. Hélène is immediately suspected of the murder, and the musician comes out of hiding and accuses her of the crime. Victor is placed in charge of the investigation and discovers that the musician is lying, and that he is the murderer. Tired of the dangers of life in the French colony, the couple head back to Paris, where Victor hopes to start a new career.[2]'
'drama','In turn-of-the-century Vienna, simple peasant girl Lena Smith falls in love with young aristocrat Franz Hofrat. They are secretly married, despite intense pressure from Hofrat''s aristocratic family, and Lena has Franz''s child. Slowly but surely, Lena''s good nature and unbounded optimism are crushed and shattered by the merciless juggernaut of class consciousness and public opinion, leading to tragedy. Her husband was jailed for the murder of his brother. Lena met Horan Duwent who promised her a life of wonder, pure happiness. But sadly nothing prevailed, he was not a man of his word and 2 years later Lena took her own life. Crushed by the man she finally felt loved and adored by after so many years of troth and sadness. In the original script, Lena Smith was a prostitute, but this was written out to avoid audience animosity against the character, and to conform to an early version of the Production Code.'
'drama','A spoiled rich girl falls for a poor chauffeur. Their situations are changed when her family loses all their money and he wins $50,000 at a racetrack. They get married, but it''s not long before she starts spending their money the way she used to spend hers.'
'musical','A musically talented young woman named Marjorie who is part of a stage show, meets a warehouse clerk named Al West who has put together an unusual jazz band. She becomes interested in him and his work and so manages to use her influence to get him into the program for one of the shows at her theatre company. The manager, Max Mindel has a dislike towards Marjorie so after discovering her affection towards Al, he gives the band notice and hires harmony singers Barney and Bey as a replacement. Marjorie makes up to both men and soon breaks up the duo, getting rid of the competition. Al learns of her scheme, and makes her confess to the singers of her deeds. Barney and Bey make up, and Max gives Al and his band one more chance. Al is a sensation, and Max offers him a contract for $1,000 a week.'
'musical comedy','The Cocoanuts is set in the Hotel de Cocoanut, a resort hotel, during the Florida land boom of the 1920s. Mr. Hammer (Groucho Marx) runs the place, assisted by Jamison (Zeppo Marx), who would rather sleep at the front desk than actually help him run it. Chico and Harpo arrive with empty luggage, which they apparently plan to fill by robbing and conning the guests. Mrs. Potter (Margaret Dumont, in the first of seven film appearances with the Marxes) is one of the few paying customers. Her daughter Polly (Mary Eaton) is in love with struggling young architect Bob Adams (Oscar Shaw). He works to support himself as a clerk at the hotel, but has plans for the development of the entire area as Cocoanut Manor. Mrs. Potter wants her daughter to marry Harvey Yates (Cyril Ring), whom she believes to be of higher social standing than the clerk. This suitor is actually a con man out to steal the dowager''s diamond necklace with the help of his conniving partner Penelope (Kay Francis).'
'drama','Norma Besant, daughter of a Southern doctor, is an incorrigible flirt and has many suitors. Her father Dr. Besant (John St. Polis) favors Stanley (Matt Moore), who is taken with Norma. However Norma has met a simple man named Michael Jeffrey (Johnny Mack Brown) who she has fallen madly in love with. Dr. Besant disapproves of Michael and orders Norma to never see him again. Norma gives him their word, then promptly plans to marry Michael in 6 months, when he''s made ''good in the hills'' so he can buy her a home in the valley. A few months pass and Michael sneaks down from the hills to see Norma at a Country Club dance. Wanting more time alone they sneak off to Michael''s mother''s cabin. According to Norma they made coffee and talked all night about the future. She returns home the next day at 4am. However someone has spotted the couple and begun to spread rumors around town destroying Norma''s reputation. Michael is furious and vows he will ask her father for her hand in marriage immediately. Dr. Besant is furious and a heated verbal exchange takes place with Michael leaving, vowing to run away with Norma as soon as possible. Dr. Besant orders Norma to her room and leaves, pistol in hand. As Norma''s brother tries to distract her Stanley arrives, telling Norma that Michael was fatally wounded by her father. Norma runs to Michael''s cabin where he dies in her arms. Dr. Besant''s lawyer friend arrives begging Norma to lie to the police to save her father''s life. Norma refuses, but later as the trial wears on she changes her mind. She takes the stand and lies about Michael, trying to save her father. Norma breaks down under cross examination and her father comes to comfort her on the witness stand. As he tells her she does not have to lie anymore, he spots the gun on the evidence table. After comforting Norma, Dr. Besant approaches the bench and confesses his guilt, saying he has done wrong and is willing to pay the price. He then takes the gun and kills himself in front of the court. Later we see Stanley waiting for Norma, who has been in the judge''s chambers. He offers to walk her home, but Norma refuses, saying she would like to walk home alone.'
'musical comedy','Flagg (Victor McLaglen) and Quirt (Edmund Lowe) find themselves transferred from Russia to Brooklyn to South America, in each place squaring off over a local beauty. The film remains one of the earliest screen sequels to a critical and popular success with the two lead actors playing the same characters, as well as the original writers and director intact from the first picture.'
'musical','A shipping clerk, Tommy Flynn, engages a young female taxi dancer, Gracie Nolan, and the two gain some success in dance halls, winning several dance contests. As they do, he becomes infatuated with her, but she only has eyes for a pilot, Ted Smith, who wants her as a trophy of his own. Flynn is unsuccessful in his attempts to woo the young Gracie, until the pilot crashes during his attempt at a transcontinental flight. Flynn hides the fact that the pilot is still alive from Gracie, as he attempts to get her to fall in love with him, but when she discovers his subterfuge, she is enraged and rushes off to be with the pilot. However, when she finds Smith, she uncovers that he has been living with another woman. Devastated, she returns to Tommy, who takes her back. Reunited the two lovers become a successful dancing team.'
'musical comedy','Burlesque comic Ralph "Skid" Johnson (Skelly), and specialty dancer Bonny Lee King (Carroll), end up together on a cold, rainy night at a train station, after she fails an audition and he complains about her treatment by the impresario of the show and quits. They decide to team up and apply for work with a much better show on "the big wheel". The two things they have in life are dancing and each other, if she could only keep him away from the booze, long enough to keep dancing. A tragi-comedic, burlesque version of All That Jazz, from an earlier era.'
'romantic comedy','Pat Delaney is working in a circus as one of the female bareback riders. She is in love with Larry Lee, an arrogant trapeze artist and the circus'' biggest act. He does not seem to notice her, though, as he is used to being adored by tons of women. He is in a relationship with Zara, a manipulative vamp. Larry''s boss warns him about Zara, explaining that he has been incurring a lot of debts since he began dating her and that his act is no longer as powerful as in the past. One day, Pat and Larry get acquainted and she intimates that she has feelings about him and that they should do an act together. Although he makes clear that his heart belongs to someone else, he convinces the circus manager to give Pat a try on the wire. Later that day, Pat catches Zara having a date with another man, Tony. When she tells Larry about the affair, he madly confronts Zara and threatens to beat up Tony. He is interrupted by the notion that he has to perform, but he is unable to concentrate and falls off the tight-rope. He is taken to the hospital and soon recovers, but then goes missing from the circus. He refuses to come back and spends his time getting drunk instead. When he finds out that Zara and Tony have left the circus and are now struggling to get work, he sympathizes with them. Upon finding out that he is not planning on returning to the circus, Pat is determined to convince him to do otherwise. Together they form an act, but it soon becomes clear that Larry has lost his talent. Pat has trouble breaking through his distant behavior, but she convinces him to teach her how to walk a tight-rope. During this progress, he finds his talent again and urges Zara to come back to work on the greatest tight-rope act in history. When Pat finds out, she feels used and confronts Larry with an outburst before leaving in tears. The circus manager tries to comfort her and offers her her own wire act. Meanwhile, Larry is left behind by Zara, who turns out to have married Tony. On the night of her premiere, a drunken Larry tells Pat about his failure. As she tries to comfort him, she misses her premiere and is fired. Larry has collapsed in the meanwhile and Pat decides to pose as him on stage. When Larry awakens, he shows his gratitude and kisses her.'
'drama','Olga Baclanova (billed as Baclanova) stars as Tania Gregory and Clive Brook plays her husband Frank Gregory. The film is set at an outpost in British East Africa.[3]'
'romantic comedy','Lastro is a modern-day pirate who hijacks a yacht and heads into the tropic port of Tapit. He is wanted for a variety of offenses, including murder and robbery. Upon his arrival, he is recognized by a local native leader, Junipero, who recognizes him, but takes a bribe to not turn him in. While in Tapit, he sees an American dancer, Nydra, who he is immediately attracted to. Nydra is also being pursued by Harry Beall, the heir to a wealthy American family, yet Nydra is intrigued by Lastro''s self-assurance and audacity. Lastro is betrayed by Junipero, who brings the police to arrest Lastro. In the ensuing melee, Lastro overcomes both Junipero and the police, as well as easily brushing aside Beall. To secure his safe escape, Lastro takes Beall as a hostage back to his yacht. Nydra appears to beg Lastro to let Beall go, which Lastro agrees to, on one condition: Nydra must spend the night with Lastro in his cabin aboard the yacht. Nydra agrees. While they spend the night in the cabin, nothing untoward happens, with the two simply spending the time talking and getting to know each other. Nydra is impressed with Lastro''s gallantry. However, Beall has spent the night imagining the worst, and his jealous reactions in the morning completely turn Nydra off. Disgusted with his behavior, Nydra sets sails with the gallant pirate, Lastro.'
'drama','A gang of thieves rob an African diamond company of diamonds worth $500,000, with two of its members posing as Lord and Lady Stonehill (who are expected to pay a visit). They kidnap its manager, Hugh Rand, and head into the "Calahari" Desert. After a few days in the sweltering heat, three of the crooks decide to take their chances in Cape Town instead and demand their share of the loot. Steve ("Lord Stonehill") gives them worthless glass. He and Diana ("Lady Stonehill") keep going, taking Hugh with them. When their native porters desert, however, the thieves are forced to rely on Hugh to guide them. He gains the upper hand as they trek through the hostile desert with very little water. Later, one of the other crooks returns and tells them that the other two died from drinking from a poisoned waterhole, before succumbing himself. Steve reveals he poisoned the water to deter pursuit. Hugh keeps tensions high by romancing Diana, infuriating Steve. As they get thirstier and thirstier, a parched Diana offers Hugh first the diamonds, then herself, in exchange for some of the water. When he rejects both, she even offers to be his slave, but with the same result. Eventually, they reach a safe waterhole. However, Hugh has been leading them in a circle, and they finally end up back at the diamond company office. Steve is first introduced to the real Lord and Lady Stonehill, before being taken away. Diana''s fate is left in Hugh''s hands. He tells her she is free, except that she will have to report to him every day for the rest of her life. Then he embraces her.'
'operetta','French General Birabeau has been sent to Morocco to root out and destroy the Riffs, a band of Arab rebels, who threaten the safety of the French outpost in the Moroccan desert. Their dashing, daredevil leader is the mysterious "Red Shadow". Margot Bonvalet, a lovely, sassy French girl, is soon to be married at the fort to Birabeau''s right-hand man, Captain Fontaine. Birabeau''s son Pierre, in reality the Red Shadow, loves Margot, but pretends to be a milksop to preserve his secret identity. Margot tells Pierre that she secretly yearns to be swept into the arms of some bold, dashing sheik, perhaps even the Red Shadow himself. Pierre, as the Red Shadow, kidnaps Margot and declares his love for her. To her surprise, Margot''s mysterious abductor treats her with every Western consideration. When the Red Shadow comes face to face with General Birabeau, the old man challenges the rebel leader to a duel. Of course Pierre will not kill his own father, so he refuses to fight, losing the respect of the Riffs. Azuri, the sinuous and secretive native dancing girl, might be persuaded to answer some of these riddles if only she can be persuaded by Captain Fontaine. Meanwhile, two other characters, Benny (a reporter) and Susan provide comic relief. Eventually, the Red Shadow''s identity is discovered, a deal is struck with the Riffs, and Pierre and Margot live happily ever after. After 1935, the original 1929 version became impossible to exhibit in the United States due to its pre-Production Code era content, which included sexual innuendo, lewd suggestive humor, and open discussion of themes such as homosexuality (e.g. Johnny Arthur plays a character who is obviously gay).[citation needed] Consequently, a cleaned-up remake was released in 1943, with a third version following in 1953.[citation needed]'
'drama','In 1874, Disraeli''s ambitious foreign policy, aimed at creating a British empire, is voted down by the House of Commons after a speech by his great rival, William Gladstone. Later, Disraeli receives the welcome news that the spendthrift Khedive of Egypt is in dire need of money and is willing to sell the controlling shares in the Suez Canal. The purchase of the canal would secure control of India, but Michael Probert, head of the Bank of England, makes it clear to Disraeli that he is vehemently opposed to any such plan. Disraeli then summons Hugh Myers, a leading Jewish banker. Meanwhile, Lord Charles Deeford proposes to Lady Clarissa Pevensey. Although she is in love with him, she turns him down. He is content to enjoy his wealth and high social standing, and lacks the ambition she wants in a husband; further, she is a great admirer of the Prime Minister and Charles has no strong opinion about him. Disraeli, seeing promise in the young man and wanting Clarissa to be happy, convinces Charles to come work for him, and tells him about the canal purchase. But he does not tell him about the spies. Russia, eager to seize India for itself, has assigned two spies to watch Disraeli: Mrs. Travers, who has entree to the highest social circles, and Mr. Foljambe. Disraeli was not fooled; he has hired Foljambe as his personal government secretary, the better to deceive him. When Foljambe asks Charles if Myers is there to provide financial backing for the purchase of the canal, Charles says nothing, but his manner makes it clear that Foljambe has guessed correctly. Mrs. Travers orders Foljambe to leave the country and warn their masters. Disraeli soon discovers what has happened. When he decides to send an agent to the khedive immediately, Clarissa suggests he send Charles. Charles persuades the khedive to accept Myers'' cheque in exchange for the shares, also proving his own worth to Clarissa. Disraeli is elated when he receives the news. However, Myers comes and informs him that his banking house has been driven into bankruptcy by sabotage; the cheque is worthless. Disraeli tells him to keep his situation secret for the moment. When the prying Mrs. Travers arrives, Disraeli allows her to learn of the purchase, and she exultantly admits to her key part in sabotaging Myers. Thinking quickly, Disraeli summons Probert. Though the banker initially refuses to help, Disraeli forces him to sign a paper giving unlimited credit to Myers by threatening to have Parliament revoke the bank''s charter. (After Probert leaves, Disraeli confesses to his wife and Clarissa that he was bluffing.) Myers'' solvency is restored, the deal is completed, and as a result of Disraeli''s success, Queen Victoria can add Empress of India to her other titles.'
'historical','In the late eighteenth century, Lady Hamilton has had a somewhat turbulent relationship with the British people, especially the aristocracy. Born Emma Hart from a very humble background (she being the daughter of a cook), she was seen as being vulgar by the rich, but equally captivating for her beauty. In a move to protect his inheritance, Honorable Charles Greville, Emma''s then lover and her mother''s employer, sent Emma to Naples under false pretenses to live with his uncle, Sir William Hamilton, where she would study to become a lady. Surprisingly to Greville whose deception Emma would eventually discover, Emma ended up becoming Hamilton''s wife in a marriage of convenience. But it is Emma''s eventual relationship with Horatio Nelson of the British navy that would cause the largest issue. A move by Lady Hamilton helped Nelson''s armada defeat Napoleon''s fleet in naval battles, which Nelson would have ultimately lost without Lady Hamilton''s help. Beyond the dangers of war, Lady Hamilton and Nelson''s relationship is ultimately threatened by the court of public opinion as both are married to other people.'
'comedy mystery','After the lights go out at a fancy party, Jack Donovan (John Roche) turns up dead. Inspector Killian (Jack Holt) is called to the scene. As part of the investigation, he calls for a re-enactment of the events leading up to the murder. The lights go out, and another person turns up dead. Inspector Killian again calls for a re-enactment.[2][3]'
'drama','Young David Carroll takes over the publication of a local newspaper in Vermont. Although he is attracted to Dot, "the most sophisticated girl in town," he marries Allie Parker, daughter of the couple who run the boardinghouse where he lives. In separation rom her parents, Allie remains at home when David goes to New York City to sell a musical he has written. There, Dot, now a successful costume designer, uses her influence to get David''s play produced. David and Dot fall in love, but she leaves for Paris when David indicates he will remain true to Allie. He sends for Allie; but when she arrives with her whole family, he decides to follow Dot to Paris.'
'drama','Coal miner Hagon Derk (Charles Bickford) is sentenced to hang for murder. His only concern is for his young sister Katie (Muriel McCormac), who will be left all alone. Frivolous socialite Cynthia Crothers (Kay Johnson) has her own troubles. By the terms of her grandfather''s will, if she is not married by her twenty-third birthday (only a month away), she will not inherit his millions and will be left penniless. She is "engaged" to Roger Towne (Conrad Nagel), but he is married to Marcia (Julia Faye). Marcia has her own lover, Marco (Joel McCrea), and is willing to grant Roger a divorce ... for the right price. The two women haggle behind Roger''s back and settle on $100,000. Hagon, desperate to provide for Katie, offers his body for $10,000 in a newspaper ad. Cynthia sees it and goes to see him. She offers him the money in exchange for him marrying her. He accepts. Just minutes before Hagon''s execution though, the real killer is goaded into attacking a man with a gun and is fatally shot. He confesses before dying, and Hagon is released. Hagon goes to see his stunned wife. When her friends show up to party the night away, he sees Cynthia writing a $25,000 check as down payment to Marcia and discussing the terms of their agreement. In a confrontation between the group, Hagon grabs the check stashed in Marcia''s garter, showing it to Roger as proof that he''s been made a pawn. Roger tells Cynthia that he will settle with Marcia himself but if Cynthia gives her the check, they''re through. Cynthia rips up the check as Marcia threatens to expose the plot. The pair go downstairs where Cynthia reveals to the party happening that she married another man. Hagon reveals himself as her husband and the party devolves into a crude mockery of the marriage, bringing reality to Cynthia''s fear of being made a laughingstock. Having had enough, Hagon throws out the partygoers which frightens the men and arouses the women. Cynthia shows little appreciation for the act of saving her from the mockery and locks herself in her room. Hagon resolves to return her money and breaks down her door to speak to her. After a brief confrontation, Hagon flings $10,000 at her and leaves. When Cynthia is informed that she must actually be living with her husband on her birthday, she drives to his mining town. He refuses to go back to her palatial apartment, so she persuades him to let her stay with him. He agrees on condition that she cook and clean, just like a real wife, and locks up her fancy car in his tool shed. Her first attempt at preparing a meal is a dismal failure. Katie kindly helps out and keeps it a secret from Hagon, but Cynthia confesses on her own. Hagon tells her it is the first honest thing he has seen her do. The next day, while shopping at the local store, Cynthia buys a gift for a young boy. His mother objects, but the child runs away with his present and is hurt in a traffic accident. The doctor says that only a brain specialist in the city can save him, but the boy only has hours to live. Cynthia breaks into the tool shed, speeds away in her car and returns with the specialist. The child is saved. Hagon returns from work to find the door of his tool shed demolished and learns that Cynthia withdrew $2,000 from the bank (to pay the specialist). He assumes that she got tired of his way of life and went to see Roger. When Hagon demands an explanation, Cynthia is too disheartened to reply. She telephones Roger to come for her. However, the child''s mother tells Hagon what Cynthia has done. When Roger shows up, he insists on seeing Hagon before leaving. They go down into the bowels of the mine to find him. A cave-in traps the trio with only fifteen minutes worth of air. Hagon finally confesses he loves Cynthia. Then he realizes there is a way out. He quickly packs a stick of dynamite into a wall; there is another chamber on the other side with enough air to sustain them until they can be rescued. However, without a fuse cap, someone will have to strike the dynamite with a sledgehammer to set it off. After arguing, the two men toss a coin for the privilege. Roger "wins", but Hagon wrestles the sledgehammer away from him. After Cynthia whispers something to Roger, he tells Hagon that Cynthia loves Roger wants to say goodbye to him. When Hagon goes to Cynthia, he asks her to get on with saying what she needs to say. Confused, she reveals that she said she loves Hagon. With the two safely out of the way, Roger sets off the dynamite and is blown to pieces.'
'historical drama','In 1806 in the village of Pontresina, Switzerland, a mountain man named Marcus (John Barrymore) is in love with Ciglia (Camilla Horn), a young village woman who has been rejecting the advances of Lorenz (Victor Varconi). The mischievous Pia (Mona Rico) throws herself at Marcus, but she is also rejected. Marcus and Ciglia profess their love, while the jealous and vindictive Pia looks on. Following the end of the French Army occupation, the people of Pontresina celebrate their liberation with a boisterous masked dance. At the party Ciglia becomes frightened of a drunken Marcus and she asks to be taken home. Marcus goes home confused. When Pia boldly attempts to seduce Marcus, he accepts her advances. The next day Ciglia receives permission from her uncle Tass (Hobart Bosworth) to marry Marcus. Pia and her mother approach Tass, and then confront Marcus. With Ciglia overhearing, they demand that Marcus marry Pia, who plays the cowering innocent. Ciglia leaves Marcus, and Marcus and Pia get married. Lorenz soon takes advantage of Ciglia and eventually they also get married. During a heavy snowstorm, Pia is worried about Marcus and tries to form a rescue party to find him. With no one willing to join, she turns to Lorenz and Ciglia. Ciglia overreacts to the news, making Lorenz suspicious about her affections. Ciglia soon discovers Marcus safely arriving in the village. Consumed in jealously and sorrow, Lorenz confronts Marcus, urging him to leave the village, even offering him money, but Marcus refuses. Later in the mountains, Lorenz ambushes Marcus and the two exchange gunfire. Marcus returns to the village, followed by the accusing and dying Lorenz. The villagers turn against Marcus despite Ciglia''s cries of his innocence. Pia falsely accuses Ciglia of putting Marcus up to the murder of Lorenz. Soon the villagers turn into a mob and pursue Marcus and Ciglia into the mountains. With no other recourse, Marcus and Ciglia walk hand in hand into the path of an avalanche.'
'drama','Naomi Iverson learns that her father has assumed the blame for engaging in an illegal stock pool and is to be sentenced by the Federal Government to 5 years in prison. In return, Iverson will receive a check for $1 million from John Hardin, his former partner and now his bitterest enemy. She appropriates the check and goes to Hardin''s yacht hoping to recover the written "confession." There she meets and falls in love with Hardin''s son, Ernest. Complications set in when Iverson arrives and is set adrift by Tony, leader of a gang of rumrunners. Tony, who covets Naomi, gets involved in a fight with Ernest; Tony corners her, but she is rescued by Ernest. The revenue officers seize the rum boat and arrest the two old men as bootleggers. When Naomi and Ernest confront their fathers with their love, the fathers bow to necessity and once again become friends.'
'comedy','Egomaniacal baseball slugger Elmer Kane is not only good, he enjoys telling everybody how good he is. A professional scout, Bert Wade, takes an interest in Elmer, who in turn takes an interest in Evelyn Corey, an attractive actress. Wade cons the ballplayer into thinking the actress is falling for him, which inspires a home run from Elmer to win the big game.'
'adventure','College football player Lefty Phelps (Ralph Graves) causes his school to lose the big game when he gets disoriented after a tackle and runs the wrong way. After being treated decently by gruff U.S. Marine Corps Sergeant "Panama" Williams (Jack Holt), a spectator, Phelps decides to enlist in the Marines himself. He is selected to attend pilot training school at Naval Air Station Pensacola, where Williams is a flying instructor. When Williams finally recognizes Lefty, he befriends him and takes him under his wing. On his first attempt at solo flight, however, Lefty is taunted about the football game by fellow recruit Steve Roberts (Harold Goodwin), and cannot take off, resulting in a crash. Panama rescues Lefty from the burning aircraft, suffering burns to his hands. Lefty is "washed out" by his squadron commander, Major Rowell (Alan Roscoe). Lefty is taken to the base hospital, where he falls for Navy nurse Elinor Murray (Lila Lee). When the "Flying Devils" squadron is sent to quell bandit attacks by the notorious General Lobo in Nicaragua, Panama arranges for Lefty to accompany him as his mechanic. Panama shows Lefty a photograph of Elinor, the love of his life, not knowing Lefty is in love with her too. When Elinor is sent to Nicaragua, she does not understand the guilt-stricken Lefty''s cool reception. When the girl-shy Panama asks Lefty to propose to Elinor on his behalf, Elinor confesses her love for him instead, after which Panama accuses Lefty of betrayal. An urgent call for help by a Marine outpost under bandit attack stops any confrontation. Lefty flies as gunner for Steve Roberts, who makes fun of him about shooting in the right direction. During the mission, their aircraft is shot down in a swamp. Unwilling to join in the rescue, Panama reports in sick, but once Elinor convinces him that Lefty never betrayed him, he flies his own solo rescue mission. At the crash site, Roberts dies of his injuries and is cremated by Lefty using their aircraft as a funeral pyre. Panama finds Lefty but is wounded by bandits led by General Lobo, after his landing. Lefty kills the attacking bandits, takes off, and brings the pair back, putting on an impressive flying display over the base that includes safely landing the aircraft after it loses a wheel. Sometime later, Lefty has won his wings and is now an instructor at the school, married to Elinor. When his wife arrives in their new car, Lefty accidentally pulls away in reverse.'
'romantic drama','Six friends are to graduate the next day from the United States Naval Academy. They all hope to become aviators. When the officer of the day becomes sick, Tommy Winslow (Ramon Navarro) has to take his place, while the others go out and celebrate. Two return loudly drunk after curfew. Tommy is able to shut Steve (Ralph Graves) up (by knocking him out), but "Dizzy" is not so lucky. An officer hears him and has him dismissed from the Academy. The rest spend a year in the fleet, then reunite in San Diego for aviation training. Upon their arrival, they become acquainted with the beautiful Anita Hastings (Anita Page). Tommy and Steve become rivals for her affections. Specs is rejected for training because of his bad eyesight. The remaining four then head to training school in Pensacola, Florida. Kewpie panics on his first flight, forcing his instructor to knock him out to regain control of their trainer biplane, while "Tex" loses control during his first solo flight and crashes into the sea. Tommy and Steve pass and are promoted to lieutenant. Upon their return to San Diego, they are reunited with Specs, now an aerial navigator, and Kewpie, the radio officer of the USS Langley, the Navy''s first aircraft carrier. The romantic rivalry between Tommy and Steve takes an ugly turn when it becomes apparent that Anita prefers Tommy. Steve resorts to underhanded tricks, straining his friendship with Tommy. In retaliation for Steve hiding his uniform pants during a swimming outing with Anita, Tommy buzzes Steve on the airfield after a mock aerial dogfight he has won. The admiral is greatly displeased, and deprives Tommy of the honor of piloting a pioneering 2,500-mile (4,000 km) flight to Honolulu, awarding it to Steve instead. Steve takes off, with Specs as his navigator. However, they run into a severe storm and crash into the ocean before the radio operator can report their position. All four of the crew survive and make it to the floating aircraft wing, but Specs is badly injured. The admiral, following in the Langley aircraft carrier, immediately orders an all-out aerial search. As the days go by, Steve and the others save the little fresh water for Specs, despite his protests; finally, while the others are asleep, Specs drags himself into the water and drowns himself. Meanwhile, the admiral is ordered to give up his fruitless search. Tommy pleads with him for one last attempt, and the admiral agrees. Tommy finally spots the survivors, but his engine conks out. He sets his aircraft on fire as a signal to the Langley and parachutes into the water. When they return to San Diego, Anita is waiting for him.'
'musical comedy','Moore plays the "dual" role of a French singer in America who was originally an American chorus girl in France to acquire a new persona.'
'drama','Tired of being hit and hurt, football star Marty Reid decides to quit Sanford College''s team. His buddy Honey Smith understands, but teammate Ed Kirby is so angry, he calls Reid a coward. Reid schemes to have campus coed Pat Carlyle make a play for Reid, coaxing him to return to the field of play. Reid does, but fumbles when he discovers he''s been tricked, then gets into a fistfight with Kirby in the locker room. Convinced now his rival isn''t yellow, Kirby invites Reid to go back to the field and win the big game.'
'musical','George Shelby, a southern boy, comes to the city to dissuade Lila, his sweetheart, from embarking on a stage career and finally buys out the controlling interest in the revue so that he can fire her. On the opening night, however, she goes onstage when the prima donna of the show becomes temperamental, and she proves to be a big hit. At this development, George is able to sell the show back to the producer, who had previously lacked confidence in his investment and planned to take advantage of the youth''s inexperience.'
'drama','Jason Robards Sr. (Carvel Emerson) and George Fawcett (Emerson Jr.) play a father-and-son team of cons, who gamble their firm’s assets. Emerson Jr. is caught investing money that doesn''t belong to him and is indicted on a swindling charge. The plot gets spicy when the District Attorney handling the case is his former sweetheart, Catherine Darwin''s husband. This situation gives the DA an opportunity to prosecute his romantic rival.'
'musical','The plot involves a young woman (Mary Eaton) who wants to be in the Follies, but in the meantime is making ends meet by working at a department store''s sheet music department, where she sings the latest hits. She is accompanied on piano by her childhood boyfriend (Edward Crandall), who is in love with her, despite her single-minded interest in her career. When a vaudeville performer (Dan Healy) asks her to join him as his new partner, she sees it as an opportunity to make her dream come true. Upon arriving in New York City, our heroine finds out that her new partner is only interested in sleeping with her and makes this a condition of making her a star. Soon, however, she is discovered by a representative of Ziegfeld.'
'musical comedy','The film opens on an audience watching a lavish 1929 Broadway show, featuring a giant gold mine production number ("Song of the Gold Diggers"). Famous guitarist Nick Lucas sings "Painting the Clouds with Sunshine", which climaxes on stage with a huge art deco revolving sun. Backstage, the star of the show (Ann Pennington) fights over Nick with another girl. Also introduced are a group of chorus girls who are ''man hungry''. They are all looking for love and money, but are not sure which is the more important. They are visited by a faded star who is reduced to selling cosmetic soap. They gossip about how they all want a man with plenty of money, so they do not end up the same way. Businessman Stephen Lee (Conway Tearle) angrily forbids his nephew Wally (William Bakewell) to marry Violet, one of the showgirls. A corpulent lawyer friend, Blake (Albert Gran), advises him to befriend the showgirl first before making a decision. The showgirls are friends who stick together, and the most raucous girl called Mabel (Winnie Lightner) takes a fancy to Blake, calling him ''sweetie'' and showing her appreciation by singing him a song ("Mechanical Man"). That evening, they all visit a huge nightclub. Mabel ends up on a table singing another song to Blake, "Wolf from the Door", before jumping into his lap. Showgirl Jerry (Nancy Welford) moves the party to her apartment. Everyone gets drunk and after seeing Ann Pennington dance on the kitchen table, Lee decides he is ''getting to like these showgirls''. Blake says he is ''losing his mind or just plain mad''. Keeping the fun going, Lucas sings "Tiptoe Through the Tulips". Complications come thick and fast after a balloon game, with both Blake and Lee falling under the spell of Mabel and Jerry. The party ends with Lucas singing "Go to Bed" and Jerry contriving to get Lee back after everyone has left. She gets him more drunk whilst tipping her own drinks away when he is not looking. Her aim is to get Lee to agree to allow Wally to marry. To do this, she lies and is shown up by her own mother, who accidentally finds them together. Next morning, Jerry feels disgraced. Mabel has been given an extra line for the show "I am the spirit of the ages and the progress of civilisation", but cannot get the words right. Lucas is told off for singing poor songs and sings another "What will I do without you". Ann Pennington fights with another showgirl and hurts her eye. Jerry is asked to take her place as the star of the evening performance. Mabel receives a proposal of marriage from Blake, but worries about her extra line. The show starts with Nick Lucas reprising "Tiptoe Through the Tulips"'' with full orchestra in a huge stage set that shows girl tulips in a huge greenhouse. Backstage, Uncle Steve comes back to give his consent to his nephew and to tell Jerry he wants to marry her. The finale starts with Jerry leading the "Song of the Gold Diggers" against a huge art deco backdrop of Paris at night. Various acrobats and girls litter the stage as all the songs are reprised in a fast moving, lavish production number. This ends with Jerry sweeping through the middle as the music reaches a climax. Mabel then says her line, but forgets the end.'
'western','Stephen Ghent, a mineowner, falls in love with Ruth Jordan, an arrogant girl from the East, unaware that she is the daughter of his dead partner. Ruth is vacationing in Arizona and Mexico with a fast set of friends, including her fiancé, Edgar. Manuella, a half-Spanish person hopelessly in love with Ghent, causes Ruth to return to her fiancé when she insinuates that Ghent belongs to her. Ghent follows Ruth, kidnaps her, and takes her into the wilderness to endure hardship. There she discovers that she loves Ghent, and she discards Edgar in favor of him.'
'musical comedy','The movie follows brilliant ventriloquist "The Great Gabbo" (Stroheim), who increasingly uses his dummy "Otto" as his only means of self-expression—an artist driven insane by his work. Gabbo''s gimmick is his astonishing ability to make Otto talk—and even sing—while Gabbo himself smokes, drinks and eats. Gabbo''s girlfriend and assistant Mary (Betty Compson) loves him, but is driven to leave him by his megalomania, superstitions, irritability, and inability to express any human emotion without using Otto as an intermediary. In Otto''s voice Gabbo accepts the blame for Mary''s leaving and recounts all the things she did for him, but as Gabbo he denies his feelings and tells the dummy to shut up. Two years later, Gabbo has become a nationally renowned ventriloquist. He is revered for his talent even as he is ridiculed for his eccentricity: he takes Otto with him everywhere he goes, even dining out with him, providing much entertainment to the restaurant patrons. Despite his success he continues to pine for Mary, who is now romantically involved with another singer/dancer, Frank (Donald Douglas). With both Mary and Frank performing in a show in which Gabbo is the headliner, he attempts to win her back. Mary is charmed by Gabbo''s new romantic behavior, driving Frank to angry fits of jealousy. As his courtship meets with continued success, Gabbo increasingly expresses his emotions to Mary directly, without using Otto. One day Gabbo finds that in his absence, Mary has straightened up his dressing room the way she always used to. Convinced that she wants to come back to him, he confronts her with his feelings, admitting his loneliness without her and in the process revealing that he has grown past many of his old failings, such as his superstitions and obsession with his personal success. However, Mary tells him that she loves Frank, and has been married to him since before Gabbo came back into her life. She says that she missed Otto but not Gabbo, and in a last farewell she says "I love you" to Otto. In profound frustration at this, after Mary is gone Gabbo punches Otto in the face, but immediately apologizes and embraces the dummy, weeping. He then storms onto the stage during the finale and loudly rants at the performers. He is forced off the stage and fired from the show. Mary tries to confront Gabbo afterwards, but he only looks at her sadly and walks away. The film ends with workers taking down the letters of "The Great Gabbo" from the marquee as Gabbo looks on.'
'drama','Judy Page is a young society girl who falls in love with an architect who works in her father''s architectural firm, Dick Carroll. She lives in Greenwich Village in New York City, and one night after a party at her apartment, she runs off with Dick to get married. They are intercepted by Judy''s mother at the apartment, who, not realizing they have already been married, insists that Judy return with her to their estate in the country. Dick remains behind in Judy''s apartment. In the country, Judy is being courted by Tom Stribbling, who has insinuated himself to be close to Judy, at the expense of all other suitors. Dick learns that Judy''s parents are going to be away, and visits Judy at her parents'' estate. He has words with Stribbling, after which he makes plans to meet with Judy in the coming days at her apartment. When Tom learns of the meeting, he sends a telegram to Dick, forging that it is from Judy, cancelling the rendezvous. At the appointed time of the meeting, Stribbling shows up, instead of Dick. When Judy makes it clear she wants nothing to do with him, Stribbling attempts to force himself on her. In the ensuing struggle, Stribbling trips, falling out of Judy''s window to his death. Just as Stribbling trips, Dick has arrived at the apartment, to witness his fall. Afraid that Judy will be blamed for Stribbling''s death, Dick takes the blame, but the truth comes out during the brief police investigation, and Judy is cleared of any wrongdoing. Also during the investigation it is revealed that Judy and Dick are already married, much to the astonishment of her parents. After their initial shock, they give their blessing to the couple.'
'drama','Sharecroppers Zeke and Spunk Johnson sell their family''s portion of the cotton crop for $100. They are promptly cheated out of the money by the shill Chick (Nina Mae McKinney), in collusion with her gambling-hustler boyfriend, Hot Shot. Spunk is murdered in the ensuing brawl. Zeke runs away and reforms his life, becoming a minister, Zekiel. Sometime later, he returns and preaches a rousing revival. After being ridiculed and enticed by Chick, Zekiel becomes engaged to a virtuous maiden named Missy (Victoria Spivey), thinking this will ward off his desires for the sinful Chick. Chick attends a sermon, heckling Zekiel, then asks for baptism but is clearly not truly repentant. During a rousing sermon, Chick seduces Zekiel and he throws away his new life for her. Months later, Zeke has started a new life; he is working at a log mill and is married to Chick, who is secretly cheating on him with her old flame, Hot Shot (William Fountaine). Chick and Hot Shot decide run off together, just as Zeke finds out about the affair, Zeke chases after them. The carriage carrying both Hot Shot and Chick loses a wheel and throws Chick out, giving Zeke a chance to catch up to them. Holding her in his arms, he watches Chick die as she apologizes to him for being unable to change her ways. Zeke then chases Hot Shot on foot. He stalks him relentlessly through the woods and swamp while Hot Shot tries to escape, but stumbles until Zeke finally catches and kills him. Zeke spends time in a work camp, breaking rocks. The movie ends with Zeke returning home to his family, just as they are harvesting their crop. Despite the time that has passed and the way Zekiel left, the family joyfully welcome him back into the flock.'
'musical','Originally titled New Orleans Frolic, the story centers around Margie (played by Marjorie White), a singer on a showboat who, when she hears that the showboat is in financial trouble, travels to New York City in an effort to persuade all the boat''s former stars to perform in a show to rescue it. She is successful and the stars all fly to New Orleans to surprise the showboat''s owner, Colonel Billy Blacher, with a grand show, the proceeds of which will go to rescue the showboat.'
'drama','A Southern belle (Loy) must work in a gambling house to pay off her father''s debts, which drove him to suicide. She then meets a man who sweeps her off her feet and takes her away from it all.'
'romance','Although being engaged against her will with a wealthy man, Princess Orsolini (Catherine Dale Owen) is in love with Captain Kovacs (John Gilbert), a cavalry officer she is secretly meeting. Her mother Eugenie (Nance O''Neil), who has found out about the affair forces her to dump Kovacs and take part in the arranged marriage. Though not believing her own words, Orsolini reluctantly tells Kovacs she cannot ever fall in love with a man with his social position, being the son of a peasant.[citation needed] Feeling deeply hurt, Kovacs decides to take revenge by indulging in blackmail, spreading a rumor that he is an imposter and a swindler. The queen fears a scandal and invites herself over to his apartment to retrieve any proof of Orsolini and Kovacs'' affair, including love letters. In the end, Kovacs agrees on remaining quiet by having Orsolini spend the night with him. True love is finally reconciled.[3][4]'
'musical','Sophie Tucker plays Sophie Leonard, a singer in a nightclub who at great sacrifice sends her daughter Beth (Lila Lee) to Europe to be educated, keeping her work as an entertainer a secret from her. When the grown-up, expensively educated Beth returns to America, she is shocked to discover her mother''s true profession and disowns her, breaking Sophie''s heart.'
'comedy','A poor songwriter from the south, Barry Holmes, travels to New York City to be a success, bringing with him his prize possession: his piano. While he is trying to break into Tin Pan Alley, he stays at a boardinghouse run by Mrs. Langley, who insists that her house always be run with the highest propriety. A young woman, Ruth Morgan, lives in the room next to Holmes. One night, he annoys the entire boarding house as he is trying to complete a song he has been working on, "Someone". He is stuck on the ending, until he hears Ruth humming how she thinks it should go. Stunned, he goes to her room, and invites her back to his to finish the song. Unfortunately, Mrs. Langley discovers the two unmarried people in his room, and summarily kicks him out, intending to keep his piano as payment for back rent. Ruth works for a music publisher, Kemple and Klucke, and plots to get them to publish Holmes'' song. Both of her bosses are interested in Ruth, although Kemple is quite a bit older than her. The two partners make a bet that the younger Klucke cannot take Ruth out to dinner. Ruth makes a deal with Kemple not to agree to the dinner, but changes her mind when Klucke agrees to listen to Holmes'' song if she accompanies him. Mrs. Langley''s husband, Max, has a soft spot for the young couple, and attempts to sneak Holmes'' piano out of the rooming house. Unfortunately, in the attempt, the piano is dropped down a flight of stairs, and broken into pieces. Distraught, Ruth and Barry, don''t know how they are going to finish the song in order to pitch it to Kemple and Klucke. To make up for the loss of the piano, Max sneaks them into a piano factory during the night, where they finalize the song. Unknown to them, the factory also has an open microphone to a radio station, and the song is actually broadcast over the air. The song is an instant hit, and a bidding war starts between Kemple and Klucke and Parker Pianos for the rights to the song. Holmes is a success, and, of course, ends up getting the girl.'
'drama','Irene (Greta Garbo) is a young woman unhappily married to an older gentleman; to add to her woes, she is in love with a young lawyer, André (Conrad Nagel). Unable to find a solution to continue their romance, they stop seeing each other. Irene starts spending her time with young Pierre (Lew Ayres), the son of her husband''s business associate, who is infatuated with her. When Pierre leaves for college, he begs her for a goodbye kiss. After a chaste kiss, Pierre steals another – as Irene''s husband takes notice. A murder mystery and trial ensue.'
'romantic comedy','Children of a widower who is having an affair with a salesgirl try to break it up but are won over by the girl.'
'comedy','Disgusted that his fiancee, Diane (Jetta Goudal) has been cheating on him, Karl (William Boyd) says he''d rather marry a "street walker" than her. To get back at him, Diane arranges for Nanoni ("Little One") (Lupe Vélez), a singer at a sleazy bar, to pretend to be a Spanish girl, from a convent, to fool him.[2]'
'comedy drama','Resourceful and engaging Fay Cheyney, posing as a wealthy Australian widow at a Monte Carlo hotel, befriends Mrs. Webley with the intention of stealing her pearl necklace, a plot devised by Charles, her butler and partner-in-crime. Complicating the situation are the romantic feelings she develops for Lord Arthur Dilling, Mrs. Webley''s nephew. While taking the necklace during a party in the Webley home, Fay is caught by Arthur, who threatens to expose her unless she submits to him. Rather than compromise her principles, she confesses to her hostess, who plans to contact the police until Lord Elton, another guest, recalls Fay has a love letter he wrote her that could prove to be embarrassing to everyone present. They offer her money in exchange for the letter and her freedom, but when she destroys the letter and refuses their payment, they welcome her back into their social circle.'
'mystery','In a Broadway production of a play entitled The Snare, one of the actors, John Woodford, inexplicably dies during a stage performance, and his body disappears. Few clues exist as to what caused his death, aside from several drops of liquid found that resembled chloroform. Rumors of a love triangle between Woodford and two cast members circulate as a possible motive for his death. Five years after the theater''s closure, producer Mike Brody decides to solve the mystery by again staging the play with the remaining cast and re-enacting Woodford''s murder. During rehearsals in the abandoned theater, strange occurrences plague the cast, including ominous noises, falling scenery, and an unexplained fire. Doris, the lead actress, has her purse stolen from her dressing room by an unseen assailant; Josiah Bunce, the stage manager, reportedly receives a telegram warning him to drop out of the play, signed by John Woodford, and the theater''s new owner, Arthur McHugh, also receives a visit from Woodford''s ghost. The production continues, and during the final rehearsal, Harvey Carleton inexplicably disappears from the stage during a blackout. Doris spots a mysterious masked figure in a theater box in addition to a man resembling John Woodford, but both disappear. Behind a picture hanging on the stage, a lever is discovered which opens a trap door, where the cast find Harvey incoherent. Arthur and Richard Quayle, another cast member, venture inside, where they discover a tunnel that leads to Doris''s dressing room. Arthur has police officers appointed at the theater for the show''s opening the following night. During the performance, an electrical wire charged to 400 volts is discovered connected to a candlestick onstage, and Arthur lunges at Richard to prevent him from touching it during the final scene. The unseen masked assailant is discovered hiding inside a grandfather clock onstage, but he drops through a trap door in the floor just after shooting one of the police officers. The assailant scales the theater and throws a dummy resembling John Woodford onto the stage. He then begins swinging from a rope, but is brought back down by a stagehand who cuts it. The masked assailant is discovered to be Josiah, who caused Woodford''s death via electrocution and had been behind the "hauntings" to prevent the theater from being used.'
'drama','Bored and lonely living on her husband''s rubber plantation, Leslie Crosbie takes a lover, Geoffrey Hammond. Eventually, however, he tires of her and takes a Chinese mistress, Li-Ti. When Leslie finds out, she insists on seeing him while her husband is away. She tries to rekindle his love, but when he tells her that he prefers Li-Ti to her, she becomes enraged and shoots him repeatedly. At the murder trial, she perjures herself on the stand, claiming she had little to do with Hammond and that she shot him when he tried to rape her. Everyone sympathizes, but then Li-Ti''s emissary provides Joyce, Leslie''s attorney, with a copy of the letter in which Leslie begged Hammond to come see her. Li-Ti is ready to sell it for $10,000, provided Leslie herself make the exchange. On Joyce''s advice, Leslie agrees. Li-Ti humiliates her, but eventually accepts the money. Leslie is found not guilty. Joyce presents his bill to Leslie''s husband, Robert. He charges no fee, but the expenses come to $10,000. When Robert demands an explanation, Joyce gives him one, and the damning letter. After Joyce leaves, Robert confronts his wife and forces her to admit everything. As punishment, he decides to keep her on the plantation (he has no more money anyway). In return, she boasts that she still loves the man she killed.'
'drama','Ann Carter, an inexperienced young woman, accepts an invitation to dinner from Frank Devereaux, the son of her employer. The date turns out to be far from what she expects. It is aboard a "rum boat", a ship that sails beyond the 12 mile limit to get around the restrictions of Prohibition. Worse, Frank turns out to be a cad. When she tries to leave, he locks the door and tries to force himself on her, tearing her dress. Fortunately, the ship drifts back into U.S. waters and a police raid stops him from going any further. When a photographer takes a picture of the two under arrest, Frank buys it from him. Eighteen months later, Ann is happily married to wealthy Lawrence Reagan. They are about to celebrate their first wedding anniversary when Frank resurfaces in Ann''s life, this time as the boyfriend of her naive young sister-in-law, Helen. Though both Ann and her husband tell Helen that Frank is no good, as Lawrence knows that Frank is having an affair with the wife of one of his friends, it is clear to Ann that Helen does not believe them. Ann goes to Frank''s apartment to stop him from taking advantage of Helen. She hides when Lawrence shows up unexpectedly. He warns Frank to leave town before Lawrence''s friend catches up with him and shoots him. Frank had already planned to go, but when Lawrence declares that he intends to administer a beating first, Frank draws a gun. He is shot in the ensuing struggle. Lawrence leaves without being seen, unaware that his wife has heard the whole thing. To protect her husband, Ann phones the switchboard operator and reenacts her earlier assault, ending with her firing two shots. When the police arrive, the district attorney soon pokes holes in her story. Also, the photograph is found, providing a motive for murder. However, Frank is not yet dead; in his last few minutes of life, he explains what really happened, exonerating both Ann and Lawrence.'
'musical comedy','Count Alfred (Maurice Chevalier), military attaché to the Sylvanian Embassy in Paris, is ordered back to Sylvania to report to Queen Louise for a reprimand following a string of scandals, including an affair with the ambassador''s wife. In the meantime Queen Louise (Jeanette MacDonald), ruler of Sylvania in her own right, is royally fed-up with her subjects'' preoccupation with whom she will marry. Intrigued rather than offended by Count Alfred''s dossier, Queen Louise invites him to dinner. Their romance progresses to the point of marriage when, despite his qualms, for love of Louise Alfred agrees to obey the Queen.'
'musical','A young Jewish man works in his father''s jewelry business, but he does not like it at all—he wants to be an entertainer, something he knows that his father would never approve of. He comes up with a scheme to put on his own show in a theater and show his father that he can be a success, but things do not work out quite as well as he planned.'
'romantic drama','Timothy Osborn (Farrell) and Martin Wrenn (Williams) work as linemen for an utility in a rural area. Both flirt with Mary Tucker (Gaynor) who is the daughter of a widowed dairy farmer, As the film begins it is 1917, and America becomes involved in World War I. Both men join the U.S. Army. While on the battlefield, Wrenn and Osborn serve in the same unit, and Wrenn is a sergeant. Ordered to deliver food to men at the front, Wrenn instead purloins the truck that was to be used for the delivery for personal use, and Osborn uses a horse-drawn wagon to deliver the food. While going to the front he is injured by shellfire. Both men return home, and Osborn is now confined to a wheelchair. He and Wrenn vie for Mary''s affection. She becomes attached to Osborn and visits him every day. Wrenn, who had been kicked out of the Army, uses money and guile to win over Mary''s mother, who pressures her to marry Wrenn. She stops seeing Osborn and agrees to marry Wrenn. In the end, Osborn regains some use of his legs, walks through snow to confront Wrenn just before he is about to wed Mary. Townspeople intervene in their fight and put Wrenn on a train out of town. Osborn reunites with Mary.'
'drama','Jacqueline Floriot (Chatterton) is thrown out into the street without any money by her jealous husband Louis (Lewis Stone) when he discovers she had been carrying on an affair. She is not even allowed to see their four-year-old son, and sinks into depravity. Twenty years later, she has become the mistress of Laroque (Ullrich Haupt), a cardsharp. When he finds out that her husband is now the Attorney General, Laroque decides to blackmail him. Desperate to shield her son from her disgrace, she shoots and kills her lover. By chance, the lawyer assigned to her turns out to be her own son, on his first case. He is puzzled and frustrated when she refuses to defend herself in court. During the trial, her husband shows up in support of his son. When she sees that he recognizes her and is about to speak out, she makes an impassioned plea, not for mercy, but for understanding of what drove her to murder. As she had intended, the hidden message silences Louis. When Jacqueline faints from the strain, she is carried into a private chamber. There, she kisses her still-unaware son and dies.'
'drama','A prizefighter (Arlen) is struggling to be a champ and is in love with a good girl (Brian), but also involved with a society beauty (Baclanova) at the same time.'
'musical','A showgirl, part of a troupe, tours Europe where she falls in love with a Balkan prince. The prince''s parents disapprove and attempt to put a stop to the romance. A revolution occurs and the prince and the showgirl elope to Hollywood.'
'adventure','Set on the Maine coast, a young sloop skipper Bramdlet Dickery discovers a plot to smuggle alien Chinese into the United States. Bramdlet''s younger brother Thad is enamored with daughter of the captain of the smuggling ship. A struggle over the smuggling ensues.'
'romance','"Happy" Manning returns early from a trip to his Mexican casino, the Mina de Oro (Gold Mine), and to his wife Rose, unaware that she has been unfaithful to him with Joe, the croupier. Happy soon finds out and divorces Rose, but he keeps Joe, as Joe is too valuable an employee to lose. Afterward, he goes to visit his younger brother and ward, Bob, who is the quarterback of his college football team in California. Bob introduces him to his fiancee Marie. Bob, believing Happy owns a gold mine, promises to spend his honeymoon there. When Bob does get married, he sends Happy a telegram that he is coming. Happy''s friend Ortiz offers to exchange his real gold mine for Happy''s casino temporarily. Happy is shocked when Bob introduces his wife: Rose. Happy later tries to buy Rose off, but she turns him down, claiming she genuinely loves Bob. Happy is uncertain if she is lying or not and decides to not tell Bob the truth. However, it soon becomes clear that she has not changed. Happy blocks her secret late-night rendezvous with an admirer and confronts her. She claims that she loves Happy and that she married Bob to get back at him. She then tells him she is going home. The next day, her body is found at the bottom of a cliff.'
'detective','A young white girl, Lia Eltham, is left in Fu Manchu''s care. A British regiment, chasing Boxer rebels, fires on Fu Manchu''s home, killing his wife and child. When Lia Eltham grows up, he uses her as an instrument for revenge, killing all descendants of those who killed his wife. Opposing Fu Manchu are Police Inspector Nayland Smith and Dr. Jack Petrie.'
'fantasy','On a volcanic island near the kingdom of Hetvia rules Count Dakkar, a benevolent leader and scientist who has eliminated class distinction among the island''s inhabitants. Dakkar, his daughter Sonia and her fiance, engineer Nicolai Roget have designed a submarine which Roget pilots on its initial voyage just before the island is overrun by Baron Falon, despotic ruler of Hetvia. Falon sets out after Roget in a second submarine and the two craft, diving to the ocean''s floor, discover a strange land populated by dragons, giant squid and an eerie undiscovered humanoid race.'
'drama','Saddled with the care of a younger brother and unable to find work, Marjorie Ware puts aside her scruples and goes to see a gambler who has long cast a lustful eye on her. A pickpocket kills the gambler, and the police find Marjorie at the scene of the crime, charging her with the murder. The pickpocket later falls to his death, however, and evidence is uncovered that sets Mary free, cleared of all suspicion of guilt in the gambler''s death. Mary is then reunited with Edward Warren, a man who once did her a great kindness.'
'crime','Jill Deverne is a chorus girl married to alcoholic composer Fred. She wants to show Fred''s latest song, A Year From Today, to racketeer Joe Prividi. Prividi is the producer of the musical show in which she is working, and agrees to use his song. Fred, however, refuses any favors and rejects Prividi''s offer. When Prividi uses the song anyway, Fred and his friend Johnny Dolan become drunk and show up at a nightclub. In a raid, the police discover Fred with chorus girl Ruthie. Jill is disgusted with his behavior and dumps him. She is soon courted by Prividi, who is very overprotective. At a private party, a gambler forces himself on her and is shot by Prividi. Prividi is arrested and sent to jail. Jill does not want to be left behind, and plans a future with Fred. Prividi becomes jealous and sends gunmen to shoot and kill Fred. He is eventually stopped and put in jail, while Jill and Fred ride off in a train to start a new life.'
'drama','Bobby Murray is the middleweight champion, managed by his father, Tom. He is expected to lose an upcoming fight in defense of his title. A local sportswriter, Sid Durham, also thinks he will lose, but he has high regard for Tom. A gangster, John Zelli, also feels that Murray will lose, but wants to ensure that fact. Zelli enlists the talents of sultry Paula Vernoff to seduce Bobby, and get him to agree to throw the fight. Over the course of several meetings between Paula and Bobby, she eventually, through seduction and alcohol, gets him to agree to purposely lose. Durham, through his connections, learns of Zelli''s plot, and tells Tom what Bobby agreed to. Tom confronts Bobby, who confesses, after which he learns that a childhood friend, Doris O''Connell, who he always had feelings for, also has feelings for him. Unsure of what to do, Bobby goes to the fight. Meanwhile, his father, Tom, goes to have a little meeting with Zelli, and makes sure that Zelli won''t bother Bobby again. As the fight progresses, Bobby is on the verge of losing. But as he is knocked to the canvas a last time, he sees his father and Doris arrive ringside, giving him the courage to get up and win the fight.'
'comedy','A wealthy man dresses up as Napoleon for a fancy dress ball, but is instead detained in a lunatic asylum where they suspect him of having delusions of grandeur.[2]'
'musical comedy','With unpaid actors and staff, the stage show Phantom Sweetheart seems doomed. To complicate matters, the box office takings have been robbed and the leading lady refuses to appear. The cast includes William Bakewell as the head usher eager to get his sweetheart, box-office girl Sally O''Neil, noticed as a leading girl. Betty Compson plays the temperamental star and Arthur Lake the whiny young male lead. Louise Fazenda is the company''s eccentric comedian. Joe E. Brown plays the part of a mean comedian who constantly argues with Arthur Lake.[7]'
'drama','Heiress Billie Brown (Crawford), is engaged to marry her longtime sweetheart, budding diplomat Gil Jordan (Fairbanks). When Billie goes to see senior diplomat Glenn Abbott (La Rocque) about ensuring that Gil get a favorable assignment, Billie and Glenn are undeniably attracted to one another. Gil is likewise attracted to Kentucky Strafford, (Page), Billie''s houseguest, who becomes pregnant by Gil. Gil finds that he loves Kentucky, but marries Billie instead. Once Billie realizes that Kentucky is pregnant with Gil''s child, their marriage is annulled and both are paired up with the people they truly love.'
'romance','Trader Henry Slater (Donald Crisp) stops at a South Pacific island looking to obtain a cargo of copra. He is informed that half-caste Henry Shoesmith, Jr. (Ramon Novarro) owns the largest plantation, but is rather indolent. Meanwhile, Shoesmith is lolling around, while admirer Madge (Renée Adorée), wishes she had met him before she became a fallen woman. Then the young man hears a woman singing aboard a ship. He swims out and is strongly attracted to Tito (Dorothy Janis). She, however, rebuffs him. When the narrow-minded Slater first meets Shoesmith, he is quite rude to the native, but soon changes his manner when he learns who the young man is. The easygoing Shoesmith does not take offense, and is delighted to be formally introduced to Tito, Slater''s half-caste ward. Slater starts to bargain for copra and is pleasantly surprised when Shoesmith offers him as much as he wants for free. He takes the precaution of having Shoesmith sign a contract to that effect. Tito eventually falls in love with Shoesmith, but Slater has other plans for her. He tells Shoesmith to stay away from his ward, using the excuse that Shoesmith has no ambition. He suggests to the naive younger man that he take out a bank loan and build up his business. Then he sails away with Tito and his copra. Shoesmith follows Slater''s advice and runs a store, but Madge warns him he does not know what he is doing (he allows every customer to buy on credit). When Slater returns, Shoesmith asks Tito to marry him. She agrees. However, Slater informs the puzzled Shoesmith that the loan payments are overdue and that he is foreclosing on all of Shoesmith''s property. In addition, Slater informs his ward that he will "sacrifice" himself to protect her by marrying her himself. Shoesmith is too late to stop the wedding, but while Madge distracts the guests, he carries Tito off to his native home. Slater finds Tito while Shoesmith is away, takes her back to his ship and starts to beat her. Shoesmith follows, and a fight ensues. The younger man wins, and he and Tito swim back toward the island. However, when they spot approaching sharks, they have no choice but to head back to Slater, pursuing in his dinghy. Slater takes Tito aboard, but keeps his rival at bay with a sword. Shoesmith swims under the boat to the other side and topples Slater into the water, where the sharks get him. The young couple return to their idyllic home.'
'musical comedy','Irène Bordoni is cast as Vivienne Rolland, a Parisian chorus girl in love with Massachusetts boy Andrew Sabbot (Jason Robards Sr.) Andrew''s snobbish mother Cora (Louise Closser Hale) tries to break up the romance. Jack Buchanan likewise makes his talking-picture debut as Guy Pennell, the leading man in Vivienne''s revue.'
'drama','Prince Wolfram (Byron) is the betrothed of mad Queen Regina V of Kronberg (Owen). As punishment for partying with other women, he is sent on manoeuvres. He sees Kitty Kelly (Swanson) walking with other convent students and flirts with her. She is embarrassed when he makes a comment after seeing that her underwear is visible, so she takes it off and throws it at him, to the horror of the nuns, who punish her for her "indecency". Enthralled by her beauty, he kidnaps her that night from the convent, takes her to his room and professes his love for her. When the Queen finds them together the next morning, she whips Kelly and throws her out of the castle. Regina then puts Wolfram in prison for not wanting to marry her. Original ending: Kelly goes to German East Africa to visit her dying aunt and is forced to marry a repulsive man named Jan. The aunt dies after the wedding and Kelly refuses to live with him, instead becoming the madam of her aunt''s brothel. Her extravagances and style earn her the name "Queen Kelly". Alternate ending: Kelly dies in despair after her humiliation at the hands of the Queen. Wolfram, contrite, visits her body.'
'musical','After working as a hostess for Nick and Andy, Tex Malone leaves their employ and opens a club of her own. Looking for talent to book for the floor show, Tex hires Bee Walters and thereby breaks up Bee''s act with Eddie Parr. Andy spitefully kills Tex''s friend, Holland, and young Eddie is arrested for the crime on circumstantial evidence. Tex then learns from Eddie''s father, Phil, that Eddie is her long-lost son. At the trial, Tex comes to Eddie''s defense and persuades one member of the jury that there is reasonable doubt of Eddie''s guilt. The jury repairs to Tex''s club, where Tex discovers a piece of evidence that conclusively links Andy with the murder. Eddie is freed, and Tex and Phil get together for a second honeymoon.'
'drama','After attending preparatory school and college in the Eastern United States, Wing Foot (Richard Dix) returns to his Navajo tribe and renounces their customs and beliefs, becoming an outcast among his own people. He later secretly visits the village of a rival tribe in order to see Corn Blossom (Julie Carter), his sweetheart, who has also been to school in the East. Her people discover his presence, and he is forced to flee into the desert, where he discovers oil. White prospectors also find the oil, and Wing Foot races them to the claim office, filing his claim first. Faced with marriage to a man she does not love, Corn Blossom takes refuge in the Navajo village. Her people come to take her back, and a pitched battle between the tribes is averted only when Wing Foot arrives and tells both tribes of the new good fortune of the Indian nations. He then claims Corn Blossom as his own.'
'musical comedy','Bert Wheeler plays Chick Bean, a New York bootlegger who comes to the Mexican town of San Lucas to get a divorce so he can marry Dolly (Dorothy Lee). After the wedding, Ned Levitt (Robert Woolsey), Chick''s lawyer, informs Chick the divorce was invalid, and advises Wheeler to stay away from his bride. The Wheeler-Woolsey plot is actually a subplot of the film, and the main story features Bebe Daniels (in her first "talkie") as Rita Ferguson, a south-of-the-border beauty pursued by both Texas Ranger Jim Stewart (John Boles) and local warlord General Ravenoff (Georges Renavent). Ranger Jim is pursuing the notorious bandit Kinkajou along the Rio Grande, but is reluctant to openly accuse Rita''s brother, Roberto (Don Alvarado), as the Kinkajou because he is in love with Rita. Ravenoff successfully convinces Rita to spurn Ranger Jim on the pretext that Jim will arrest Roberto. Rita unhappily agrees to marry Ravenoff to prevent him from exposing Roberto as the Kinkajou. Meanwhile, Wheeler''s first wife, Katie (Helen Kaiser), shows up to accuse him of bigamy, but conveniently falls in love with Woolsey. At this point, the film switches into Technicolor. During the wedding ceremony aboard Ravenoff''s private barge, Ranger Jim cuts the craft''s ropes so that it drifts north of the Rio Grande. The Texas Rangers storm the barge, arrest Ravenoff as the real Kinkajou just in time to prevent the wedding, and Roberto is revealed to be a member of the Mexican Secret Service. Jim takes Rita''s hand in marriage and Roberto escorts Ravenoff back to Mexico for trial.'
'drama','Allen John Spender (Charles Farrell) is a virile outdoorsman and Rosalee (Mary Duncan) is his high society sweetheart.[3]'
'musical comedy','Sally (Marilyn Miller) plays the part of an orphan who had been abandoned as a baby at the Bowling Green telephone exchange. While growing up in an orphanage, she discovered the joy of dancing. In an attempt to save money enough to become a dancer, Sally began working at odd jobs. While working as a waitress, a man named Blair (Alexander Gray) begins coming to her work regularly to see her. They both soon fall for each other. Sally, however, does not know that Blair has been forced into an engagement by his family with a socialite named Marcia (Nora Lane). One day, a theatrical agent shows up at Sally''s work (T. Roy Barnes) and gives her a chance to audition for a job. Sally, however, ends up losing her job and the opportunity when she drops a tray of food into Barnes'' lap. Eventually, Sally gets another job at the Elm Tree Inn, which is managed by Ford Sterling. Blair drops in one day and immediately takes an interest in Sally. He convinces Sterling to have Sally dance for his customers. While she is performing one day, the theatrical agent (T. Roy Barnes) notices her and convinces Sally to impersonate a famous Russian dancer named Noskerova at a party being given by Maude Turner Gordon. At that engagement, she is found to be an imposter and is asked to leave. Before Sally leaves, however, she hears the announcement of Blair''s engagement to Marcia. Undaunted, she proceeds with her life and eventually becomes a star on Broadway. Unfortunately she never forgets Blair and becomes terribly depressed until...'
'romantic comedy','Set in May 1929, the film focuses on two sisters - Mayme (Clara Bow) and Janie (Jean Arthur) - as they share an apartment in New York City. In daytime, they work as salesgirls at the Ginsberg''s department store, and at night they vie for the attention of their colleague Bill (James Hall) and fight over Janie''s selfish and reckless behavior, such as stealing Mayme''s clothes and hitchhiking to work with strangers. Bill prefers Mayme over Janie and constantly shows his affection for her. This upsets Janie, who schemes to break up the couple. One day at work, Bill is promoted to floorwalker, while Janie is made treasurer of the benefit pageant. Mayme, however, is not granted a promotion, but gets heavily criticized for constantly being late at work by the head of personnel, Miss Streeter (Edna May Oliver).'
'musical','Joe Lane, radio entertainer and songwriter, learns that the manager of the studio, Arthur Phillips, has made improper advances to his wife, Katherine. Infuriated, Lane engages him in a fight, and the encounter results in Phillips'' accidental death. Joe goes to prison and soon insists that Katherine divorce him, for her and their son''s sake, and marry her employer, Dr. Merrill, since Joe has learned the doctor has feelings for Katherine and would provide for them well. When Joe is released he visits his son, Little Pal, at school and they embrace during outdoor recess. Joe says goodbye when recess is over, but Little Pal follows Joe downtown and is soon struck by a truck, causing the paralysis of his legs and loss of his voice. Joe takes the boy to Dr. Merrill, who long ago proposed to Katherine, but she had politely declined and told the doctor that she still loved Joe. Dr. Merrill says he will either operate for free if Joe relinquishes Little Pal to his mother''s care or charge a large fee if Joe insists on keeping the boy to himself. Joe panics and leaves with the boy, but soon realizes his mistake and brings Little Pal back for the surgery. After obtaining Joe''s promise that he will return Little Pal to his mother, Merrill operates and restores the use of the boy''s legs. Little Pal''s voice is regained later when Katherine plays a recording by Joe, "Little Pal", at his bedtime and Little Pal dreams of a tender visit with his father holding him in his arms and singing to him. Joe returns to work, singing and also sending personal messages over the airwaves to his wife, who, along with their son, await Joe at their lovely home.'
'drama','A common convention in the early decades of newspaper and magazine film reviews was to describe in the write-up the entire storyline including, in a substantial number of instances, the ending, thus unintentionally enabling subsequent generations of readers to reconstruct a lost film''s contents. True to form, those who evaluated Seven Faces, such as Mordaunt Hall of The New York Times,[6] did go into considerable detail regarding plot twists, as related herein below.[7][8][9][10] Papa Chibou (Paul Muni), the elderly caretaker of Musée Pratouchy, a Parisian wax museum, feels a strong kinship with the figures, particularly with that of Napoleon. He spots at the waxworks a romantic young couple, Georges (Russell Gleason), a lawyer, and Helene (Marguerite Churchill), the daughter of a stern judge (Lester Lonergan) who disapproves of his daughter''s choice and forbids her to see Georges. Papa Chibou suggests to them that they can still stay in touch, without disobeying her father''s directive not to speak with each other, by placing secret personal messages in the pockets of Napoleon''s uniform. However, a missing letter and confusion in communication causes Georges to arrive at the mistaken conclusion that Helene has redirected her affections towards a foolish young man (Walter Rogers), who is unworthy of her and excessively preoccupied with his stylish personal appearance and elegant clothing. Seeing their lovers'' quarrel, Papa Chibou attempts to mollify the heated language, but George and Helene rebuff his soothing words by telling him not to interfere, since as an old man he knows nothing of love. Saddened by this rejection, he dreamily imagines that seven of the museum''s waxworks come to life and offer philosophical advice on the intricacies of courtship and love. Don Juan, the legendary 17th century libertine, Napoleon (1769–1821),[11] Franz Schubert (1797–1828), African American boxer Joe Gans (1874–1910),[12] Willie Smith, a Cockney costermonger who became a music hall attraction after winning a lottery-auction known as Calcutta Sweepstakes[13] and a Parisian hypnotist whose purported mastery of dark arts earned him the stage name Diablero (all portrayed by Muni) as well as Catherine the Great (1729–1796) (portrayed by Salka Stenermann) speak to Papa Chibou, each in his or her own unique manner and accent, providing insight and personal experience in their reflections on this very intimate topic.[14][15] The wax museum is unable to support itself and has to close. The owner, Monsieur Pratouchy (Gustav von Seyffertitz) puts the figures up for auction and Papa Chibou bids his life savings to acquire Napoleon, but is outbid. He then decides to take the waxwork and, while struggling to carry the heavy and unwieldy life-size figure in his arms through Paris streets, attracts public attention and is arrested for theft. At his trial, the judge is Helene''s father, while the defense attorney is Georges, the young romantic, who delivers an impassioned summation vividly describing how the defendant was overcome by patriotic fervor over Napoleon''s victories and his contributions to the glory and grandeur of his beloved France. Although the judge finds Papa Chibou guilty, as required by law, he is so impressed that he suspends the punishment and contributes towards the purchase price of the figure which is given to Papa Chibou who then confesses that as an uneducated man he never knew that Napoleon had accomplished all those great deeds and that he simply formed a close attachment to him. "Then who did you think Napoleon was", he is asked. "A sort of murderer", he replies.[16] At that point, as he straightens Napoleon''s pockets, Papa Chibou discovers the overlooked letter which explains and resolves Georges'' and Helene''s misunderstanding, thus allowing the young lovers an opportunity to declare their true feelings, with her father''s blessing.'
'horror','Jim and Eve, a young society couple, are kidnapped on the eve of Jim''s departure for Africa and brought to a mansion that is home to a strange and glamorous Satanic cult.'
'romance','The eighteen-year-old Magnolia meets, falls in love with, and elopes with riverboat gambler Gaylord Ravenal. After the death of Captain Andy, Magnolia, Ravenal, and their daughter Kim leave the boat and go to live in Chicago, where they live off Ravenal''s gambling earnings and are alternately rich and poor. Finally, Parthy announces she is coming to visit at a time when Ravenal is completely broke, and, fearing her wrath, he abandons Magnolia and Kim, after which Magnolia finds a job singing at a local club and eventually becomes famous. Years later, Parthy dies, and Magnolia, who had long been estranged from her because of her attitude toward Ravenal, returns to the show boat. Magnolia and Ravenal are reunited on the show boat at the end of the film, and after Parthy''s death, Magnolia gives her own inheritance money to her daughter Kim.'
'crime drama','The film chronicles the exploits of three Irish brothers. Jimmy is a cop, John is an emergency room doctor, and Dennis, as far as his family is aware of, is a very wealthy businessman, even having paid for John to go to medical school. Their parents, Nora and Tom, are very proud of all three sons. Jimmy is promoted on the police force, and begins the investigation of a murder involving the infamous Muller gang. As this crime drama unfolds, the viewer is introduced to Dennis''s other life. In reality he is a powerful racketeer and bootlegger, but he keeps his two personas separate in order to protect his family from any consequences of his criminal activity. However, when Jimmy''s fiancé, Kathleen Doyle, attends a party thrown by Muller at one of his houses. During the party, she inadvertently learns that Silk is a killer hired by Muller, who was responsible for the murder her fiancé is investigating. Meanwhile, John goes out on an emergency call to care for a man who has been injured in a drunken brawl. While he is treating the injured man, he accidentally discovers that Muller is none other than his brother, Dennis. When Kathleen meets Jimmy and tells him about her discovery, unbeknownst to them, she is overheard by one of Muller''s gang, who then plots with the other gang members to ambush and kill Jimmy. On Thanksgiving, Dennis realizes his cover has been blown, and he realizes his brother, Jimmy, is in danger. He and John rush off to warn Jimmy, but as they arrive at the ambush, Dennis saves his brother, but gets shot by his own men instead. He dies in the arms of both of his brothers, who later tell their parents that he has gone off on another one of his mysterious journeys, perhaps this time for good.'
'romance drama','Arden Stuart (Greta Garbo) believes that a single standard of conduct should apply to both sexes. She strives for a combination of freedom, equality, and honesty in love. Her first attempt is with chauffeur Anthony Kendall, who is secretly a disillusioned "ace aviator" and son of a lord. However their romance ends in disaster; he commits suicide when he is fired because of it. Her longtime admirer Tommy Hewlett (Johnny Mack Brown) wants to marry her, but Arden finds fulfillment in a chance encounter with Packy Cannon (Nils Asther), a wealthy ex-prizefighter turned painter. He had planned to cruise the South Seas on his yacht alone, but she impulsively goes with him. After months of idyllic bliss however, he turns around and takes her home, explaining that he needs his full attention for his painting. Though Tommy knows of Arden''s love for Packy, he begs her to marry him anyway. She agrees. Several years go by, and they have a much-beloved son. However, Packy returns and admits to Arden that he could not stop thinking about her. She is swept away and agrees to sail away with him. Tommy confronts his rival with a gun; he orders Packy to pretend to reject Arden, promising to arrange a hunting "accident" for himself, so that Arden can be with Packy without a scandal that would hurt his son. Meanwhile, Arden comes to realize that their child means more to her than anyone else. She tells Packy she cannot go with him. Tommy, unaware of this latest development, arranges his shooting accident, but Arden figures it out in time.'
'war','World War I British aviator Jack Bardell (John Garrick) is discharged from the service after a suspicious aircraft crash that his fellow pilots believe show that he was a coward in the face of the enemy. He is left temporarily paralyzed from the waist down, and enlists the aid of his mechanic Tom Berry (Billy Bevan) to rebuild a wrecked fighter aircraft. Bardell recuperates to the extent that he is able to fly again, redeeming himself during a German Zeppelin attack over London, bringing down one of the airships.'
'western','Cowboy Jack "Dirty Neck" Purvin travels to San Francisco to learn how to become a refined gentleman to impress Helen van Smythe. Upon his return from San Francisco, Purvin is forced to shed his training to save van Smythe from the grasp of a count, and her mother from a jewel thief.'
'drama','Rory O''More leaves his sweetheart Kathleen O''Connor back in the old country while he travels to America to establish himself. He is a musician, and hopes to make it big. Kathleen grows tired of waiting and travels to America, only to find him on stage performing "their" song and kissing another woman. Kathleen returns to Ireland, followed by Rory, who explains everything. In the end they wed and return to America.'
'musical comedy','Uncle Claude comes to the Ardmore Beach Hotel to see Tommy and his wife. At the hotel, with his two granddaughters Ruth and Sally, Uncle Claude meets a wise-talking employee named Letty, which causes him to leave the hotel. When he finds Tommy, he mistakes Grace for his wife and likes her and the way she keeps a clean house. To get a big check from Uncle Claude and to see how life is with the other, the two couples switch spouses for a week.'
'comedy','Elmer, a humble worker in a dry cleaning establishment, idolizes stage actress Trilby Drew (Sebastian). She, in turn, is carrying a torch for fellow actor Lionel Benmore (Edward Earle). When he spurns her for the younger Ethyl Norcrosse (Leila Hyams), she impulsively asks Elmer to marry her, only to regret it almost immediately. Her handlers extricate her from the marriage, and when Elmer finds himself first in the hands of criminals and then at sea, he is more than happy for the opportunity to forget her. But a series of coincidences throw Elmer and Trilby back together again, and she will have cause to re-evaluate her opinion of him.'
'drama','In Hungary, a beautiful, young gypsy girl, Nubi, seeks shelter during a sudden squall. Nubi is given shelter by a well-to-do farmer and his family. The farmer and his family hide the girl when a brutish, older gypsy lover arrives to claim the girl and take her away. The older gypsy leaves, and Nubi is allowed to stay on with the family as a servant. Nubi does little useful work as a servant in the house, and instead proceeds to use her feminine charms to entice and bewitch various male members of the household, leading to many scenes of discord, anger, and jealousy. The spell that Nubi has put on the house is only lifted at the end of the movie when the older gypsy returns, and carries Nubi away -- with the farmer and his family no longer willing to offer protection to the troublesome gypsy girl. [1][2][3]'
'adventure','James Rutherford has organized an expedition to the jungles of Central America to find his missing son, Bob, and his guide, Simpson. Professor Dangerfield intercepts the party, bringing with him Simpson, whose jungle experience has made him a raving maniac. They go ashore and decide to spend a night at a Mayan temple. After Irene, Bob''s fiancée, disappears, they come across a gigantic ape chained to the floor, and Captain Rhodes, commander of the yacht, is abducted by a strange monster with great hairy talons. Messages are found warning the party to leave. Sewald, an explorer, is mysteriously killed by an arrow. Simpson''s reason returns, and he saves the party, revealing that the demented hermit, whom he has just killed, and who formerly occupied the ruins, murdered Bob two months before.'
'drama','The Four Seasons are a very good jazz quartet, but they perform in a New York City cafe for only $100 a week, forcing them to share a small, rundown apartment. The quartet consists of Joe Spring on clarinet, Pete Summer on accordion and guitar, Mike Fall on piano and trumpet, and an ever-pessimistic Happy Winter on violin. On his way home one night, Mike drives off a man accosting a young blonde named Frederika Joyzelle. When she tells him she has not eaten in two days, he persuades her to share the group''s dinner. She tells them that back in her homeland, she was a violinist. The highlight of her career given a command performance for her homeland''s ruler, Prince Nicholaus of Aregon. Mike convinces his bandmates to allow "Freddie" to room with them for two weeks, after they discover she has no place to go. Freddie talks the band into asking for a raise to $200, but when they are turned down, they impulsively quit. Mike is further discouraged when they return to the apartment to find Freddie gone. However, Freddie soon returns with great news. She has spent all day trying to convince Keppel, the owner of the well-known Little Aregon Cafe, to give the quartet a tryout. She finally succeeded, and at a salary of $300 a week. She gets a job there too, as a cigarette girl and part-time violinist. As time goes on, Mike falls in love with Freddie, but is unsure how she feels about him. Prince Nicholaus of Aregon is in town, trying to arrange financing for his country. He and his entourage go to the cafe, much to Keppel''s delight. When Freddie performs for him, he remembers her and kisses her on the forehead. The newspaper coverage of the kiss causes the cafe to skyrocket in popularity overnight. When a competitor of Keppel''s asks the group to perform at his establishment, Keppel wins a bidding war by raising their wages to $3000 a week. This enables them to move into a much fancier apartment. However, the kiss also causes Mike to become jealous to the point of quitting the band. The popularity of Keppel''s cafe allows him to move into the larger "Club Joyzelle". With the help of Prince Nicholaus, Freddie and Mike are reunited in time for the grand opening. Even Happy, who is anything but, smiles as a result.'
'musical comedy','The film centres around a Will-they won''t-they romance. Wealthy Jack Cromwell from Long Island runs off to New York City on account of his fiancee''s relentless flirting. He attends an Independence Day block party where Molly Carr, from Yorkville, Manhattan, falls in love with him. Comic relief is provided by grocer Eric Swenson, above whose shop Molly and her flatmate, Bea Nichols, live.[3][4] Gaynor performs a charming singing and dancing version of the song "(Keep Your) Sunny Side Up" for a crowd of her neighbors, complete with top hat and cane. Later in the film, a lavish pre-Code dance sequence for the song "Turn on the Heat", including scantily clad and gyrating island women enticing bananas on trees to abruptly grow and stiffen, with the graphic metaphor lost on no one, occurs without Gaynor''s participation.'
'musical comedy','Benny and Flo are a husband and wife dance team, Sloane and Darrel, traveling around the country as part of a revue. The revue gets picked up and taken to New York City, to be on Broadway. However, it quickly folds, and the two are forced to look for other employment. They eventually find work in a nightclub, becoming famous. While performing at the nightclub, Flo becomes entranced by a young, sophisticated millionaire playboy, Winston. Swayed by his sweet words, Flo leaves Benny, and finds another dancing partner, who she pairs with in another revue, this one financed by Winston. However, her new act is a flop, and when Winston offers to take her to Europe, but is unwilling to marry her, she realizes the mistake she''s made. She repents and returns to Benny, who takes her back and re-establishes their act, going back on the road.'
'comedy','Famed playwright Donald Anthony returns home to Magnolia Gap, Virginia, and proposes to Betty Fairfax. She accepts and he offers her the lead part in his next play, but the play is a disaster. Donald tells her that she is unsuited for the role, that it requires someone with more life experience. Rather than return home defeated, Betty stays in New York, in a bad neighborhood where local gangsters adopt her as their own. When Donald comes to visit her, they eject him. There is a gunfight, and in the resulting confusion Donald sweeps in and rescues Betty. After the excitement, Betty gives up her dreams of the stage and devotes herself to Donald.'
'musical comedy','Peggy is the daughter of Mr. Reynolds and his wife Sophie. Although married, both of the elder Reynolds are having romantic interludes with younger people, Mrs. Lyons-King and Roger Fleming, respectively. In addition, Peggy''s sister, Janet, is infatuated with Clinton Darrow, a ne''er-do-well, who is only interested in the Reynolds'' money, not in Janet. Peggy is in the only normal relationship, with her boyfriend, Bill. While at a seaside resort, Peggy attempts to get all of her family members back in line. However, things become convoluted as Mr. Reynolds is about to buy some useless shares of stock, having been convinced by Lyons-King, as Darrow begins to blackmail Janet due to some rather juicy letters she had sent to him. When Janet sneaks into Darrow''s room, attempting to retrieve her letters, she is seen by her sister and Bill, who think she is sneaking in for other reasons. Janet is unsuccessful in her attempt to procure the incriminating letters. As Darrow steps up his blackmail threats, Janet can see no way out, so decides to kill him instead. However, during the attempted assassination, she mistakenly wounds Peggy, rather than her intended target. Bill, meanwhile has become fed up with all of the antics going on and is sundered from Peggy. Through a twisted process during a fake robbery, a friend of Peggy''s, Roger Fleming, and his girlfriend, Tootie, obtain the letters from Darrow, thus ending the blackmail attempt. Peggy manages to straighten out both of her parents, and by the end of the film is reconciled with Bill.'
'mystery','Inspector Delzante (Bela Lugosi), investigates a series of murders near a British mansion in Calcutta. The murders are pinned on a young runaway named Helen O''Neill (Leila Hyams) who is taken in by a well-intentioned fake Irish medium, Madame LaGrange (Margaret Wycherly).[1]'
'romance','Vilma Banky portrays a newly arrived Hungarian immigrant who learns to accustom herself to the new and strange life she finds in New York. The story gave Miss Banky moments of comedy and pathos. First seen as a frightened little peasant muffled in countless petticoats and shawls --- then in a neat waitress''s uniform as she flips hotcakes in a restaurant window.'
'romance musical','A man returns from a trip to Peru rich and looking for a wife. While still single, he has a real estate agent show him a house or two. The agent invites him to dinner, during which the agent and his wife start bickering, causing the poor fellow to rethink marriage over. He does still want to share his home with someone, however, so he has the agent''s sister-in-law move in. Eventually, they fell in love.'
'crime','Thunderbolt Jim Lang (George Bancroft (actor)), wanted on robbery and murder charges, ventures out with his girl, "Ritzy" (Fay Wray), to a Harlem nightclub, where she informs him that she is going straight. During a raid on the club, Thunderbolt escapes. His gang shadows Ritzy and reports that she is living with Mrs. Moran (Eugenie Besserer), whose son, Bob (Richard Arlen), a bank clerk, is in love with Ritzy. Fearing for Bob''s safety, Ritzy engineers a police trap for Thunderbolt; he escapes but is later captured, tried, and sentenced to be executed at Sing Sing. From the death house, he successfully plots to frame Bob in a bank robbery and killing. Bob is placed in the facing cell, and guards frustrate Thunderbolt''s attempts to get to his rival. When Ritzy marries Bob in the death house, Thunderbolt confesses his part in Bob''s conviction. He plots to kill the boy on the night of his execution, but instead at the last minute his hand falls on Bob''s shoulder in a gesture of friendship.'
'detective','A leading financier is found dead at his home, leading amateur detective Philip Trent to investigate the case.'
'drama','A humble woman (Swanson) marries a wealthy man (Ames). Their marriage is annulled by the man''s father (Holden), who considers her a fortune-hunter, and she is left alone to raise her child. She later becomes a "kept woman" for an older, married man. When the man dies, leaving Swanson a $500,000 inheritance, the press is quick to cast doubts upon the paternity of Swanson''s child. Her ex-husband has since remarried, and now comes back into Swanson''s life. For the sake of her child, she sends the boy to live with her ex and his wife. The wife dies and the film ends happily (if improbably) with Swanson reunited with her ex-husband.'
'drama','In pre-European New Zealand there are two hostile Māori tribes. The chief of one tribe proposes to marry his daughter Miro into the other tribe, the Waiti. But a contest, The Challenge of the Spear, must be held, with the victor to marry Miro. Rangi, a vicious warrior wins by trickery. Miro is by tapu forbidden from seeing her true love Patiti. But Patiti rows across the lake to see her nightly, until the suspicious Rangi finds them. In a deadly struggle on the edge of the volcano, Patiti forces Rangi into the volcano. War resumes, but love brings a compromise and Miro and Patiti marry.'
'musical comedy','Rudy Bronson is a senior in a small college in the Midwest. While in school, he completes a correspondence course in the saxophone, given by the nationally known Ted Grant. Bronson and his friends form a band, but have difficulty finding work. Believing that Grant will help them land professional jobs, the band heads to the Long Island, New York home of Grant. Once there, they pester Grant for an interview, to the point where Grant leaves his home, along with his manager, to stay in New York City, until Bronson gives up and goes home. After Grant has left, his next door neighbor, Mrs. Whitehall, grows suspicious of the unknown young men hanging around his house. Thinking they might be burglars, she calls the police. Whitehall and her niece, Jean, go over to Grant''s house to confront Bronson. Thinking quickly, one of Bronson''s friends introduce him as Ted Grant, who Whitehall, despite being neighbors, has never met. The police are still suspicious, but when Bronson and his band plays for them, they believe he is Grant. In fact, Whitehall is so impressed, and slightly embarrassed over having called the police, that she hires Bronson''s band to play at a charity concert. As they are waiting for the day of the concert to arrive, Bronson and Jean become romantically involved, and the band becomes relatively successful. However, on the night before the charity event, Jean discovers that Bronson has been impersonating Grant, and while she doesn''t go public with her discovery, she is understandably quite upset with Bronson''s subterfuge. However, another socialite does report Bronson to the police, but before he can be arrested, Grant returns and claims credit for discovering Bronson and his band. The band becomes a great success, and Bronson is reconciled with Jean.'
'drama','The credits (accompanied by organ music endemic to silent films), segue into title card: "A city street-----where laughter and tragedy rub elbows." A crowded block lined with tenement buildings, on Manhattan''s Lower East Side, comes into view, followed by a look into the hallway of one of those buildings, then a shot is heard, a door to one of the apartments opens and a man holding a gun (Paul Muni) backs out, closes the door, puts the gun in his pocket, then walks down flights of stairs and into the busy street. While he passes along sidewalks teeming with human activity, an Irish American policeman berates a driver for parking in front of a hydrant, but when the driver removes his scarf, revealing a clerical collar, the abashed officer apologizes and offers to accompany the priest to the beat of "that cop on the next corner, he''s not one of us". At that point, the shooter approaches and makes a gesture to speak, but the priest has already started to drive off, with the officer standing on the car''s running board. Continuing to walk, the shooter reaches a police precinct and goes inside. Approaching the desk lieutenant (Clifford Dempsey), who asks, "Well, what''s on your mind?", he replies, "I killed a man", explaining that the victim lived at 191 East 8th Street, was named John Harris, and "deserved to die". Asked for his own name, he hesitates and, spotting a wall calendar (showing May 1928) with a large ad for "Dyke & Co., Inc.", says "Dyke... James Dyke". To "Why are you giving yourself up?", he answers "It was the only thing to do". The subsequent title card states: "Civilization demands its toll." In court, the killer is only willing to explain that "I never struck anybody in anger in all my life, but when I knew what he had done, I had to kill him." The judge (Henry Kolker) ultimately proclaims that "it is the duty of this court to sentence you to be executed at the state''s prison during the week of August seventeenth." Another title card: "Meanwhile------in a far-away home...." In the backyard of a countryside house, a young woman (Marguerite Churchill) is attending to her dogs, while her wheelchair-bound mother (Edith Yorke) is sitting nearby. A young man (John Mack Brown) arrives and greets the mother as "Mrs. Douglas", while she addresses him as "Robert" and tells him that it was on such a nice day as this that she last saw her son Joe. Robert hands her "your Columbus paper" and goes to greet the young woman, "Mary", who calls him "Bob". He unsuccessfully attempts to help Mary bathe one of the dogs and, when she falls trying to catch the dog, Bob impulsively kisses her and then proposes. Mary''s mother calls and shows them a photograph of "James Dyke" in the paper with the lead "Condemned Man''s Story Of His Life As It Should Have Been. A Lesson To Youth On Folly Of Crime By The Man Of Mystery". She tells them that he looks like the long lost Joe, but Mary says that it must be a mistake and there''s happy news in that Bob proposed and after the marriage they will all live together. The next title card describes "Gray walls, claiming their forfeits of liberty------and life." Prisoners are seen laboring in a field outside the prison and, as they return to the mess hall for a meal, a stage above the dining area features an orchestra consisting of African American prisoners, replete with a smiling bandleader, playing dance music for the prisoners as they eat. "Dyke" is brought to the office of the warden (DeWitt Jennings) who asks him about any family members whom he might like to contact, but the condemned man replies that he has no one. Leaving the office, he hears the jaunty melodies resonating from the dining area and says, "I didn''t know you had music... here". A newspaper''s printing machines are seen churning out the evening edition with the headings: "Mystery of Dyke''s Identity Secret as Hour of Death Nears. Prisoner Staunchly Refuses to Divulge Secret of Himself or the Motive for His Crime Though He Faces Chair. James Dyke Maintains Silence as He Writes News Paper Articles Warning Youth on the Folly of Crime." One of the printers (unbilled Robert Homans) tells the other that he heard the paper was paying Dyke $2,500 for his writings and that Dyke was buying Liberty Bonds with the money. Sitting in her bedroom, the infirm Mrs. Douglas visualizes long-ago memories of teenage Joe (unbilled Barton Hepburn) describing to his little sister Mary about being cast in a local Shakespeare play and that, at bedtime, instead of "goodnight", she should recite to him the "parting is such sweet sorrow" lines and he would respond with the "sleep dwell upon thine eyes" lines. Meanwhile, in the living room, Mary and Bob are in the midst of a party to celebrate their engagement and, as the happy couple and invited guests dance, everyone joins in singing a fast chorus of "Hosanna, hosanna, sing hosanna today". Briefly leaving their guests to check on Mrs. Douglas, Mary and Bob hear from her that despite fragile health, she has decided to make the long trip to visit "James Dyke" in prison, because the possibility that he might be Joe is making the uncertainty unbearable. Mary offers to travel on her mother''s behalf, with Bob accompanying her on the trip and, as they are riding on the train, a little girl passenger who says that her name is Suzanne (unbilled Helen Parrish) asks if they also have a little girl, prompting Mary to tell Bob that she couldn''t marry him "if this man in prison should be my brother", because "it wouldn''t be fair to you" and "people are cruel". A title card indicates "The test of the valiant." Dyke is escorted to the warden who commends his exemplary behavior and asks what he wants done with the $2,500 in Liberty Bonds which are being held here in the office for him. Dyke replies that he''ll think of something. Also present is the chaplain (Richard Carlyle) who, along with the warden, tries to convince him to see the young lady who traveled a thousand miles to speak with him in the hope that he might be her long-lost brother. Dyke eventually agrees, but requests privacy for the meeting, which is granted. The warden initially speaks with Mary alone, learning that she is from the (fictitious) town of Pennington in Ohio, that her father died when she was a baby, that Joe, who is ten years older, left home fifteen years ago because "he wanted to be in the city" and has not been heard from since. She is certain, however, that she could recognize him from his reactions to their long-ago "goodnight" verses from Romeo and Juliet. As Dyke is brought into the office, the warden, the chaplain and the guard exit, leaving the two alone, but with all doors open. After Mary''s explanation, Dyke denies being her brother, says he is from Canada, not Ohio, and does not react to the verses. As Mary is about to leave, however, he asks her to repeat her name and her brother''s name and then tells her that when he served with the Canadian Forces during the War (World War I), a fellow showed great valor in sacrificing his life and the dead hero''s name was Joseph Anthony Douglas. There will be a record of his service, but as occasionally happens in war, other details, including his ultimate fate, may be lost. However, she should take the unopened envelope (containing the Liberty Bonds) to her mother and buy for her a Gold Star to put on the front door in honor of her fallen son. Mary asks if there is anything she can do and he responds that her touch would mean the world to him. After hugging him, Mary leaves with the envelope and then "James Dyke" softly recites to himself the "sleep dwell upon thine eyes" lines as the time for his execution arrives. Back in Pennington, Mary and Bob sit by the piano, while Mrs. Douglas rests in her wheelchair on the porch, visualizing marching doughboys and then her young son''s smiling face while he is also wearing such a uniform. As Bob and Mary wheel her inside, the front door slowly swings closed, revealing the display of a large star.'
'comedy','Alan Camp has written a book on eugenics, and is looking to prove his theories. His sister, Edith Goodhue, and her husband, Gilbert have been frustrated for years with their inability to have children. Alan convinces them to let him to create a child through eugenics for them to adopt. Chosen to be the parents of this eugenic child are Joe Garvin, who happens to be Alan''s chauffeur, and Nora, the Goodhues'' maid. The two are offered $15,000 each if they conceive and deliver a child within twelve months, to which they agree. To give the young couple room to move ahead with the plan, the Goodhues leave on a year trip to California. Nora and Joe do have the baby, but have fallen in love in the interim and have decided to keep the child. When the Goodhues return from California, they find their home has been converted into a nursery, occupied by Mr. and Mrs. Garvin, who have married. They will not give up their baby, and Alan frantically sends Joe to a local orphanage in order to find a replacement baby. However, the child Joe returns with is rejected by Edith and Gilbert. Despondent, Alan decides to have the nursery dismantled, when Mrs. Goodhue announces that she is pregnant.'
'western','A man known only as the Virginian (Gary Cooper) is ranch foreman at Box H Ranch near Medicine Bow, Wyoming. At a saloon in Medicine Bow, he and the cattle rustler Trampas (Walter Huston) vie for the attentions of a barmaid; when Trampas insults him, the Virginian pulls a gun and tells him to smile. Soon afterwards, Molly Wood (Mary Brian), a new schoolteacher from Vermont, arrives in town. The Virginian and a drifter named Steve (Richard Arlen) vie for her attentions, but she ultimately chooses the latter. However, as Steve was his childhood friend, the Virginian gives him a job at the ranch. Unhappy with the Virginian''s violent nature, Molly tries to change him but is unsuccessful. Meanwhile, Steve and the Virginian enjoy playing pranks together, switching babies during a baptism; they also make quail calls for secret communications. However, Steve falls in with Trampas'' gang. Although warned by the Virginian that no good will come of it, Steve continues with the gang. When they (minus Trampas) steal cattle from Box H Ranch, the Virginian is forced to hang all involved, including Steve. The Virginian vows revenge on Trampas for forcing him to do so. Disgusted by The Virginian''s callousness, Molly leaves him. However, after he is shot in the back by Trampas, she decides to treat him, and they fall deeper in love; they eventually decide to marry. On their wedding day, Trampas comes back to town for revenge and challenges the Virginian to a shoot-out. The Virginian quickly draws his six-shooter and kills the bandit in the streets. He then marries Molly, and the two prepare to open their own ranch.'
'romantic drama','Jerry Larrabee (Richard Barthelmess) is framed by rival gangster Spadoni (Louis Natheaux) and sent to prison, where he is befriended by a kind and understanding warden (William Holden). Through the warden''s patient influence, Jerry becomes interested in music and forms a prison band, broadcasting over the radio. Jerry''s singing deeply moves his radio listeners and soon Jerry is given a pardon by the governor. Jerry pursues a singing career in vaudeville, billing himself as the Master of Melody, but constant whispers of "Convict!" from the audience disturb his concentration. Moving from job to job, Jerry is haunted by his past. With no hope of succeeding in music, Jerry returns to his old gang and takes up with his former sweetheart, Alice Gray (Betty Compson). As he prepares for a final confrontation with Spadoni, Alice gets in touch with the warden, who arrives on the scene in time to keep Jerry on the straight and narrow path. Jerry eventually becomes a radio star and marries Alice.'
'drama','Eve Quinn, a shallow but attractive debutante, makes a practice of leading men on, then coolly casting them aside for new conquests. She openly boasts that she would find pleasure in taking a man from her sister, Cornelia, who is an art student. When Cornelia falls in love with wealthy clubman Lewis Dike, Eve succeeds in vamping and capturing him; broken-hearted when they marry, Cornelia deliberately introduces Eve to Wilfred Meadows, a playboy with whom she begins a flirtation. Dike soon tires of the modernistic furnishings of their home and the jazz-mad parasites who frequent his drawing room, and he is refreshed by visits to Cornelia. When Dike accidentally learns of Eve''s liaison with Wilfred, he realizes his error and is reunited with Cornelia.'
'comedy','Harold Bledsoe, a student of botany, is traveling by rail to San Francisco, where the captain of police has sent for him to help investigate a crime wave in the city''s Chinatown district. Since Harold is the son of San Francisco''s former police captain, municipal authorities hope he will be as skilled as his father in solving crimes. Also traveling to the city, but by car, are two people unknown to Harold. They are a young woman named Billie Lee and her little brother Buddy, who is in dire need of having his lame leg treated in San Francisco by "the famous Chinese physician" Dr. Chang Gow.[3][4] During a brief train stop in Colorado, Harold has his photograph taken at a vending machine. He is surprised to see in the print the face of an attractive woman next to his. Actually, Billie Lee had taken her photo at the same machine before Harold, but the film failed to develop properly, thus leaving her image on his double-exposed print. Harold''s train halts again later for a minor repair; and while waiting outside the passenger car, he sees an unusual blossom on a nearby tree. He goes to fetch it but is unable to reach high enough, so he stands on the back of a cow. Suddenly, the train''s whistle blows, which causes the cow to bolt with Harold holding on desperately. The animal soon throws him off on a dirt road where Billie and Buddy''s old car sits with an apparent engine problem. Harold does not recognise Billie as the woman on his photograph; in fact, he thinks she is a boy since she is wearing a man''s cap and overalls to work on the engine. Harold tries to help, but he only complicates things and repeatedly insults Billie. After she removes the carburetor, a passing motorist suggests they check their car''s gas tank, which is indeed empty. The motorist gives them some fuel; but after he leaves, Billie realizes that she left the carburetor on the other car''s running board. Now they must spend the night along the roadside. Harold makes Billie do much of the work setting up camp as he sits mooning over the mysterious woman in his photograph. Billie saw earlier that it is her image, but she does not tell him. After enduring more physical and verbal abuse from Harold, she finally changes her clothes in a tent and then shocks him by reappearing in a dress. He now recognizes her and flees, embarrassed by his boorish behavior. She catches him and asks if he still thinks she is as beautiful as in the photograph; he says yes. Next morning, the trio harness the cow to pull their car to a gas station. Harold then separates from Billie and Buddy to catch another westbound train. Once in San Francisco and at police headquarters, Harold is introduced to the process of fingerprinting, which intrigues him. He causes chaos at the station for the next two weeks by using the messy, fine black powder to take fingerprints of everyone at the building, including the print of a visitor, John Thorne, a respected citizen who is pressuring the police to crack down on crime. Harold''s antics continue to anger staff at the station, so the desk sergeant hatches a scheme to get rid of him. He sends him on a mission to find the "Dragon", the mysterious master of the city''s Chinese underworld. To "aid" Herold in his search, the sergeant gives him Mr. Thorne''s fingerprint, but he lies and tells him it is the Dragon''s print. Harold goes to Chinatown, where he sees Billie in her car. She gives him the address where she and Buddy are residing in the city. Harold then passes a flower shop and sees a beautiful potted flower he wants to purchase for Billie, but the employees refuse to sell it. Determined to have one, he throws money on the floor and dashes out of the shop with the flower and evades two employees in hot pursuit. He next visits Billie and gives her the flower. Dr. Gow is also there examining Buddy''s leg. As he departs, he accidentally knocks the flower off a table and breaks its pot, revealing a package of opium. Telling them to say nothing about the drug, the doctor goes to the flower shop, where he is kidnapped. Later, Harold and Billie hear radio news that Dr. Gow had been seized and may be killed. Fearing his death would deprive Buddy of any hope of a permanent recovery, Harold leaves to rescue the doctor. In Chinatown, Harold sees Clancy, a street cop he had met earlier; and together they go to the shop. Aware of their presence, employees there set up a series of spooky effects to frighten them from the premises; yet, Harold and Clancy remain despite being terrified. Clancy does leave briefly to call for more officers before returning. Fights then begin with Chinese gang members and continue in passageways beneath the shop. Harold wanders through the basement area and soon encounters the masked Dragon and some of his men preparing to execute Dr. Gow. Harold manages to prevent the murder and struggles with the Dragon, who escapes with his hostage before the police burst in and arrest everyone else. When the police return to the station with Harold and gang members, Billie is already there, eager to find him. The police inform Harold about misleading him with the Dragon’s fingerprint. He is mortified until he notices in a mirror that in his fight with the Dragon, the drug lord had left his sooty fingerprint on Harold''s forehead, and it matches Thorne''s print. Harold tries to explain the significance of this find to his colleagues, who only ridicule him. Thorne then appears at the station, and Harold instantly denounces him. As an influential public figure, Thorne is thought to be above suspicion, so the police apologize for Harold''s behavior and try to detain him. He gets away and follows Thorne to his home, where he eventually extracts a confession from him. The police arrive and remain skeptical that Thorne is the Dragon until Harold finds Dr. Gow gagged and bound in a closet in Thorne''s study. Thorne is arrested, and the film ends with Billie accepting Harold''s clumsy proposal of marriage.'
'adventure','Tiger Haynes traps wild animals for a living, and bears the scars of his dangerous occupation on his face. He cares for only one thing in life: his beloved daughter, Toyo. When he returns to the city of Vien-Tien from his latest foray in the jungle, Toyo tells him that she and Bobby Bailey, the son of an American circus owner (one of Tiger''s best customers), have fallen in love and are engaged. Initially opposed to the union, Tiger gives them his blessing after Bobby protects the girl from a tiger that has gotten loose. Tiger and Bobby take the captured animals down the river for shipment to Bobby''s father. On the trip, Bobby becomes infatuated with the alluring Madame de Sylva. When Bobby introduces Tiger to her, they regard each other with intense hatred. Tiger takes Bobby off the ship to get him away from the woman. While waiting for the barge carrying the animals, he explains that Madame de Sylva is Toyo''s mother. She ran away when Toyo was only a baby. Aghast, Bobby makes Tiger promise to keep the whole incident secret. When they reach the port, Tiger is worried because Bobby and De Sylva will be sailing across the Pacific on the same ship. Bobby reassures him by instead returning with him to Toyo. However, Madame de Sylva arrives unexpectedly and is welcomed by an unsuspecting Toyo. De Sylva uses all her feminine wiles to try to lure Bobby away from her daughter. After Toyo overhears the truth in a heated argument between her parents, she tells Bobby she only wants him to be happy. That frees Bobby from the older woman''s spell. Tiger secretly opens the cage of an old gorilla who still remembers being mistreated by De Sylva long ago. It is implied that the femme fatale is killed. When Toyo and Bobby come out to see what is going on, Tiger rushes into De Sylva''s room and is gravely injured. Afterward, hiding the seriousness of his wounds, Tiger watches the young couple get married by the Padre.'
'comedy','Peabody Jr. (Neil Hamilton) and his friends prepare to frolic into the night before he must begin work the following day at his father''s department store. Before departing, Peabody Sr. (Edward Martindale) lectures his son about the women of the day and that all the cuties at the store are off limits. In the meantime, Pert Kelly (Colleen Moore), after winning a dance contest is being wooed by gentlemen of questionable character. All parties end up having a wild time at "The Boiler" where Pert catches the eye of Peabody Jr. who gives her a ride home and schedules a date for the following night. Pert is tardy to work as she was up until 3 and must report to the personnel office where she is surprised to find Peabody Jr. working. Peabody Sr. is there, figures out what''s going on, and terminates Pert''s employment. Peabody Jr. must wait several hours past the scheduled date before he can talk to Pert and explain he did not do the firing. They schedule another date. Lavish gifts arrive for Pert to wear to the next date. She gets lectured by Pa Kelly (John St. Polis) about the lack of virtues of the "modern" man. Similarly Peabody Jr. is again lectured about the "modern" woman by Peabody Sr. On the next date, Peabody Jr. has devised a test of Pert''s virtue. When he tries to push her past her personal limits, she protests, in the process passing his test with ease. They are married that night, and they arrive back home to prove her virtue to Peabody Sr. who now cannot refute it.'
'drama','John Sterling (Lewis Stone) takes his young wife Lillie (Greta Garbo) to Java where he plans to invest in tea plantations. Beyond the difference in years between the two, he is neglectful, which creates reactions of frustration from his romantic young wife. Aboard a ship, Lillie witnesses a scene of cruelty – a passenger hits one of his servants. The violent man is immediately taken by the beauty of this mysterious woman and will endeavor all to make her acquaintance. Therefore, he contacts the husband, whom he attracts with his deep knowledge of the Javanese tea market. John presents his new friend, the young and handsome Prince de Gace (Nils Asther) to his wife, who immediately recognizes the violent man. Multiple situations offer the Prince a chance to approach Lillie, who spurns him. He then uses force to kiss her - Lillie tries to talk to her husband, in vain. In Java, the couple are hosted by the Prince, at this vast estate. Lillie avoids being alone with the Prince – she even wishes to join her husband in his professional investigations, which he refuses. Finally, Lillie and the Prince are alone for a few hours, and his efforts intensify. He forces himself upon her again, and she finally yields and returns his kiss. John returns to surprise the kiss in Chinese shadows, raising the question of whether the woman embracing De Gace is his wife. His suspicion confirmed by a misplaced necklace, the men go on a tiger hunt. The Prince is hurt. John decides to return to the United States alone, but his wife reaffirms her love for him.'
'comedy','Sam Lash (Gary Cooper) is a fur trapper with a randy reputation when it comes to women. But when Sam meets tempestuous Mexican damsel Lola Salazar (Velez), he falls deeply in love for the first time in his life. Lola''s aristocratic father Don Solomon (Michael Vavitch) disapproves of the romance, forcing Sam to kidnap the girl and high-tail it to the mountains. After a brief period of marital contentment, Sam gets restless and leaves Lola, preferring the company of his trapper pals Gullion (Louis Wolheim) and Rube (Constantin Romanoff). But he relents and returns to his bride—making short work of his bitter enemy, Indian leader Black Wolf (George Rigas).'
'drama','Dan, a tough police captain, and Ray, a hardened criminal, are estranged brothers. When Ray faces capture, Kitty, the sister of Ray''s ex-partner (whom Dan helped to convict), offers to help him escape because she sees an opportunity for revenge against Dan. She notifies the police and Dan of Ray''s whereabouts, regretting her actions too late to prevent their capture. To avert arrest by his brother, Ray commits suicide. Kitty consoles Dan in his grief, and they come to an understanding over Ray''s body.'
'musical comedy','Two young college students, Phil (David Percy) and Pete (John Wayne), compete for the love of pretty girl named Mary (Lois Moran), and also to win the $1500 prize in a song-writing contest to write the best show tune for the annual college revue. The two men each ask Mary to sing for them, but eventually, she chooses Phil as her beau, and it is he who also has the winning song. Although the film was largely devoid of much plot line, as was typical of musical revue pictures of the period, there is a great deal of singing and dancing. Many of Lois Moran’s numbers were actually footage that was cut from the film Fox Movietone Follies of 1929, which were edited out when the film was found to be too long. This film was created to make use of the deleted scenes, and so was fashioned around Moran’s singing talent. Songs include: "Too Wonderful for Words" (William Kernell, Dave Stamper, Paul Gerard Smith, Edmund Joseph), "Stepping Along" (Kernell), "Shadows" (Con Conrad, Sidney D. Mitchell, Archie Gottler).'
'drama','The child of Jewish immigrants, Morris Goldfish (Ricardo Cortez) finds success as an art dealer. He moves his family to Fifth Avenue and changes his name to Maurice Fish. There, he finds his family to be damaging to his social status. In the end he finds that there is more to life than money.[1][2]'
'drama','The first act of the film covers Lincoln''s early life as a storekeeper and rail-splitter in New Salem and his early romance with Ann Rutledge, and his early years as a lawyer and his courtship and marriage to Mary Todd in Springfield. The majority of the film deals with Lincoln''s presidency during the American Civil War and culminates with Lee''s surrender and Lincoln''s assassination at Ford''s Theatre.'
'documentary','Paul L. Hoefler heads a 1928 expedition to Africa.'
'crime','Marie is a jewel thief; posing as French maid, she has cased out the safe of her employer and intends to steal its contents. However, the night she chooses for the robbery, there is another thief who also shows up to empty the safe, Jimmy. Jimmy opens the safe, and the two agree to split the contents fifty-fifty. They are interrupted by the arrival of the police. Jimmy gallantly secretes Marie away, and takes the rap himself, impressing her. After serving his year''s sentence, Jimmy is reunited with Marie, who now goes by the alias of Gertie, and the two form a partnership in crime. After several bank robberies, Marie and Jimmy agree that after one last haul, they will go straight. Marie, who has become friends with the next-door neighbors in her apartment building, Mr. and Mrs. Matson, who entice Jimmy to invest his $30,000 savings in Matson''s business. Unfortunately, the Matsons turn out to be crooks themselves, and have swindled Jimmy out of his life''s savings. When Jimmy determines to go back to safecracking, beginning with Marie''s former employers, Marie hatches a plot to encourage him to go straight. When a good-hearted detective, Kelcey, lets them off the hook with the promise that they will go straight, they agree.'
'drama, war','Professor Kantorek gives an impassioned speech about the glory of serving in the Army and "saving the Fatherland". On the brink of becoming men, the boys in his class, led by Paul Baumer, are moved to join the army as the new 2nd Company. Their romantic delusions are quickly broken during their brief but rigorous training under the abusive Corporal Himmelstoss, who bluntly informs them, "You''re going to be soldiers—and that''s all." The new soldiers arrive by train at the combat zone, which is mayhem, with soldiers everywhere, incoming shells, horse-drawn wagons racing about, and prolonged rain. One in the group is killed before the new recruits can reach their post, to the alarm of one of the new soldiers (Behn). The new soldiers are assigned to a unit composed of older soldiers, who are not exactly accommodating. The young soldiers find that there is no food available at the moment. They have not eaten since breakfast, but the men they have joined have not had food for two days. One of them, "Kat" Katczinsky, had gone to locate something to eat and he returns with a slaughtered hog he has stolen from a field kitchen. The young soldiers "pay" for their dinner with soaps and cigarettes. The new recruits'' first trip to the trenches with the veterans, to re-string barbed wire, is a harrowing experience, especially when Behn is blinded by shrapnel and hysterically runs into machine-gun fire. After spending several days in a bunker under bombardment, they at last move into the trenches and successfully repulse an enemy attack; they then counterattack and take an enemy trench with heavy casualties, but have to abandon it. They are sent back to the field kitchens to get their rations; each man receives double helpings, simply because of the number of dead. The men start out eating greedily, but then settle into a satiated torpor. They hear that they are to return to the front the next day and begin a semi-serious discussion about the causes of the war and of wars in general. They speculate about whether geographical entities offend each other and whether these disagreements involve them. Tjaden speaks familiarly about himself and the Kaiser; Kat jokes that instead of having a war, they should have the leaders of Europe be stripped to their underwear and "fight it out with clubs". One day, Corporal Himmelstoss arrives to the front and is immediately spurned because of his bad reputation; he is forced to go over the top with the 2nd Company and is promptly killed. In an attack on a cemetery, Paul stabs a French soldier, but finds himself trapped in a hole with the dying man for an entire night. Throughout the night, he desperately tries to help him, bringing him water, but fails miserably to stop him from dying. He cries bitterly and begs the dead body to speak so he can be forgiven. Later, he returns to the German lines and is comforted by Kat. Going back to the front line, Paul is severely wounded and taken to a Catholic hospital, along with his good friend Albert Kropp. Kropp''s leg is amputated, but he does not find out until some time afterwards. Around this time, Paul is taken to the bandaging ward, from which, according to its reputation, nobody has ever returned alive; but he later returns to the normal rooms triumphantly, only to find Kropp in depression. Paul is given a furlough and visits his family at home. He is shocked by how uninformed everyone is about the actual situation of the war; everyone is convinced that a final "push for Paris" is soon to occur. When Paul visits the schoolroom where he was originally recruited, he finds Professor Kantorek prattling the same patriotic fervor to a class of even younger students. Professor Kantorek asks of Paul to detail his experience, to which the latter reveals that war was not at all like he had envisioned and mentions the deaths of his partners; this revelation upsets the professor, as well as the young students who promptly call Paul a "coward". Disillusioned and angry, Paul returns to the front and comes upon another 2nd company that is filled with new young recruits who are now disillusioned; he is then happily greeted by Tjaden. He goes to find Kat, and they discuss the inability of the people to comprehend the futility of the war. Kat''s shin is broken when a bomb dropped by an aircraft falls nearby, so Paul carries him back to a field hospital - only to find that Kat has been killed by a second explosion. Crushed by the loss of his mentor, Paul leaves. In the final scene, Paul is back on the front lines. He sees a butterfly just beyond his trench. Paul smiles and reaches out towards the butterfly, but becoming too exposed, he is shot and killed by an enemy sniper. The final shot shows the 2nd Company arriving at the front for the first time, fading out to the image of a cemetery.'
'comedy','A newspaper headline explains that society matron Mrs. Rittenhouse is holding a lavish party at her home in Long Island. The party will host renowned explorer Captain Geoffrey (or Jeffrey) T. Spaulding as the guest of honor, recently returned from Africa. Also, as a special treat for the guests and Capt. Spaulding, revered art collector Roscoe W. Chandler will unveil his recently acquired painting by famous fictional artist Beaugard. Hives instructs the servant crew on preparations for the party ("He''s One Of Those Men"). Chandler arrives with the Beaugard and proceeds to set it up to be displayed. Capt. Spaulding''s assistant Horatio Jameson announces the Captain''s arrival ("I Represent The Captain") ("Hooray for Captain Spaulding, Part I"). Capt. Spaulding makes a grand entrance and announces that he cannot stay and must leave immediately (Hello, I Must Be Going"). Mrs. Rittenhouse begs him to stay and the guests declare their admiration for the Captain and he decides to stay ("Hooray for Captain Spaulding, Part II"). Soon after, Signor Emanuel Ravelli arrives with his colleague the professor, hired to provide music for the weekend event. After an elaborate introduction, The Professor scares the guests away with a pistol he grabs from Capt. Spaulding''s supplies. The Professor soon takes off chasing after an attractive blonde party-goer. Mrs. Rittenhouse''s daughter Arabella is attending the party with her fiancé John Parker, who is a struggling painter. John feels discouraged because he hasn''t been able to make a living with his art in order to support himself and Arabella. Arabella suggests John do a portrait for Chandler, suggesting he would receive an impressive commission. John laughs at the idea, not believing Chandler to have a genuine appreciation for art. After examining the Beaugard, Arabella devises a scheme to win Chandler''s interest in John''s work: They''ll replace the Beaugard with an almost perfect copy of it John painted in art school, since they can find no obvious differences. After the painting is unveiled at the party, they will surprise everyone and hopefully convince Chandler to hire John. Arabella asks Ravelli to switch the paintings. Meanwhile, another guest, neighbor Mrs. Whitehead thinks up the same idea with her friend Grace Carpenter as a means of humiliating Mrs. Rittenhouse. They grab Grace''s poorly made copy that she painted and ask Hives to put it in place of the Beaugard, unaware that they are taking out John''s copy. Ravelli catches the Professor chasing after the blonde girl and scolds him. Soon Mrs. Rittenhouse and Mrs. Whitehead arrive and the four proceed to play an absurd variation on Bridge. Ravelli and the Professor run into Chandler and recognize him as Abie the fish peddler from Czechoslovakia. Chandler tries to bribe the two in order to keep them quiet, but they end up taking his money, tie and garters as well as, miraculously, Chandler''s birthmark which is transferred to the Professor''s arm. After a series of strange interludes while speaking with Mrs. Rittenhouse and Mrs. Whitehead, Capt. Spaulding has a debate with Chandler outside on the balcony after his encounter with Ravelli and the Professor. Later that night in the middle of a thunderstorm, Ravelli and the Professor attempt to replace the Beaugard with the power going on and off, making the job more difficult. In the middle of the job Capt. Spaulding and Mrs. Rittenhouse wander in, making the job more difficult. They succeed in replacing the painting. During the party, Mrs. Rittenhouse invites Capt. Spaulding to speak about his travels in Africa. He proceeds to tell a ridiculous and absurd account of his travels before Mrs. Rittenhouse cuts him off. Signor Ravelli is invited to play some selection on the piano (I''m Daffy Over You", "Silver Threads Among The Gold", "Gypsy Chorus"). After several quips and interruptions Chandler invites the guests into the parlor so he can unveil the Beaugard. Once revealed, Chandler notices the poor quality and realizes someone has stolen his painting and replaced it with a cheap imitation. John feels discouraged, thinking the painting is still his copy. Suddenly the power goes out, and when restored, the imitation Beaugard is missing as well. The guests, now in an uproar, scatter and attempt to find the stolen painting, led by Capt. Spaulding. John and Arabella discuss the excitement of the situation and their love for each other ("Why Am I So Romantic?"). The next day, a police squad arrives to secure the house and search for the missing painting. Realizing that they may have gone too far, Mrs. Whitehead and Grace ask Hives for the Beaugard he took back, but he can''t find it anywhere. Mrs. Whitehead deduces the Professor must have stolen it. After confronting him she gets Grace''s copy back. Later, John finds Grace''s copy of the Beaugard and reveals to Arabella that someone else must have had the same idea as them. Realizing that Chandler never actually saw John''s copy, they become more hopeful. Soon after John realizes the copy he found is now missing. Capt. Spaulding, Jameson, and Ravelli discuss how they might go about finding the missing painting. After getting the painting back from the Professor, who is now in disguise, John and Arabella bring it to Capt. Spaulding. They figure out that the Professor must be the one who stole the paintings, and enlist the police to help find him. After a brief altercation Spaulding, Ravelli, and Jameson enter with the Professor ("My Old Kentucky Home"). The Professor is apprehended and the three paintings are returned. Chandler momentarily mistakes John''s copy for the Beaugard. Realizing his talent, Chandler hires John to do a series a portraits for him. After momentarily letting the Professor go free, the police sergeant tries to apprehend him. To escape arrest, the Professor sprays the guests with a knockout substance from a Flit can. After everyone is laid out on the floor and fully subdued, the film concludes with the Professor knocking himself out next to the pretty blonde he has been chasing throughout the entire film.'
'drama','Anna Christie is the story of a former prostitute who falls in love, but runs into difficulty in turning her life around. The first act takes place in a bar owned by Johnny the Priest and tended by Larry. Coal-barge captain Old Chris receives a letter from his daughter, a young woman he has not seen since he lived in Sweden with his family and she was five years old. They meet at the bar and she agrees to go to the coal barge with him. The barge crew rescues Mat Burke and four other men who survived a shipwreck in an open boat. Anna and Mat don’t get along at first, but quickly fall in love. A confrontation on the barge among Anna, Chris and Mat. Mat wants to marry Anna, Chris does not want her to marry a sailor, and Anna doesn''t want either of them to think they can control her. She tells them the truth about her past: she was raped while living with her mother''s relatives on a Minnesota farm, then worked briefly as a nurse''s aide before becoming a prostitute. Mat reacts angrily. He and Chris leave. Mat and Chris return. Anna forgives Chris for not being part of her childhood. After a dramatic confrontation, Anna promises to abandon prostitution and Mat forgives her. Chris agrees to their marriage. Chris and Mat have both signed to work aboard a ship that is leaving for South Africa the next day. They promise to return to Anna after the voyage.'
'horror, comedy','A mysterious criminal by the name of "The Bat" eludes police and then finally announces his retirement to the country. In the countryside near the town of Oakdale, news of a bank robbery in Oakdale has put Mrs. Van Gordner’s maid, Lizzie, on edge. Mrs. Van Gordner is leasing the house from Mr. Fleming, the Oakdale bank president, who is in Europe. The chief suspect in the bank robbery, a cashier, has disappeared. Mrs. Van Gordner’s niece, Dale arrives followed by the gardener she has hired. Dr. Venrees arrives and tell Mrs. Van Gordner that he has received a telegram from Fleming stating that because of the robbery he will be returning soon and will need to occupy his house. There are mysterious noises in the house and lights turning on and off. A rock is thrown the window with a note threatening harm if the occupants don’t leave. Dale, and the gardener, who is actually Brook, the missing teller, are looking for a secret room in the house. They believe the money from the robbery is hidden there. Detective Anderson shows up and questions Mrs. Van Gordner. Mr. Fleming’s nephew, Richard, arrives at Dale’s request. She is hoping he can help in finding the secret room. Richard finds the house plans but refuses to show them to Dale. He pushes her away and runs up the stairs but he is shot by someone at the top of the stairs and falls dead. Mrs. Van Gordner sends for a private detective. A mysterious masked man sticks a gun in the caretaker’s back and tell him he better get everyone out of the house. The lights continue to go on and off. The shadow of the Bat is seen by various occupants of the house. Anderson states that Fleming isn’t in Europe but robbed his own bank. He accuses the doctor of being part of the plot. An unconscious man is found in the garage. He comes to and is questioned by Anderson. He can’t remember anything. Anderson tells the private detective to keep an eye on him. The hidden room and the missing money are found. Fleming, the missing banker, is found dead behind a wall in the room. The garage suddenly bursts into flames. In the ensuring chaos, the Bat appears and is caught, but he gets away before he can be unmasked. As the Bat is fleeing from the house, he is caught in a bear trap, set up by Lizzie. He is revealed to be Anderson, who isn’t actually Anderson. The real Detective Anderson is the man who was found unconscious. The bat says no jail can hold him and he will escape. A curtain closes across the screen. We are in a theater. Chester Morris, who played Detective Anderson tells the audience that as long as they don’t reveal the Bat’s identity they will be safe from the Bat.'
'western','Montero is a bandit who, along with his deaf-mute sidekick, Coloso, are planning to rob a bank. They are pursued by "Bob Cat" Manners and his posse. As they close in on the bank, owned by Perkins, Montero becomes involved in the personal affairs of Helen Wardell and her fiancé, Howard. Perkins is also interested in Wardell, and he also holds the mortgage on Howard''s ranch. Finding out that Montero has a price on his head, Perkins uses that fact to coerce Montero into agreeing to kill Howard. Perkins, however, has no intention of paying Montero, instead arranging for the posse to capture the outlaw. Montero fakes Howard''s murder, and is expecting a double-cross, so he is prepared for the trap, and instead of being captured, he traps the posse. Montero then holds Perkins hostage, extorting $5,000 from him in exchange for his life, and forces Perkins, who is also Justice of the Peace, to marry Helen and Howard. Adding insult to injury, Montero gives the newlyweds the $5,000 for their honeymoon.'
'drama','Gardoni, a down-on-his-luck vaudeville performer, is taken in by a fellow performer, a clown who has a bicycle riding act. Gardoni shows his appreciation by stealing the clown''s act and his girlfriend, whom he marries.'
'drama','A ruthless, crooked stockbroker is murdered at his luxurious country estate, and detective Philo Vance just happens to be there; he decides to find out who killed him.[3]'
'drama','Kent (Robert Montgomery), a drunk driver who carelessly kills a man, is sentenced to ten years for manslaughter. In an overcrowded prison designed for 1800 and actually holding 3000, he is placed in a cell with Butch (Wallace Beery) and Morgan (Chester Morris), the two leaders of the inmates. Butch is alternately menacing and friendly, while Morgan tries to help out the frightened, inexperienced youngster, but Kent rebuffs his overtures. When Butch is ordered into solitary confinement for sparking a protest over the prison food, he passes along his knife before being searched. It ends up in Kent''s hands. Meanwhile, Morgan is notified that he is to be paroled. Prior to a search of their cell, Kent hides the knife in Morgan''s bed. When it is found, Morgan''s parole is canceled, and he is put in solitary as well. He vows to make Kent pay for what he has done. When Morgan is let out of solitary, he escapes by switching places with a corpse on the way to the morgue. He makes his way to the bookstore run by Kent''s beautiful sister, Anne (Leila Hyams). She, however, recognizes him. She manages to get his gun and starts to call the police, but then changes her mind and gives him back his pistol. Morgan (who has been attracted to Anne since he saw Kent''s photograph of her) gets a job and becomes better acquainted with Anne and her family. They all like him, especially Anne. However, he is caught and sent back to prison. When Butch tells Morgan of his plan for a jailbreak on Thanksgiving, Morgan tells him that he is going straight. In return for a promise of freedom, Kent informs the warden (Lewis Stone) of the attempt, though he is not privy to the details. Despite the warning, the inmates succeed in taking over the prison, capturing many of the guards, though they are unable to force their way out. Thwarted, Butch threatens to shoot the guards one by one unless they are allowed to escape. When the warden stands firm, Butch shoots the warden''s right-hand man in cold blood, then tosses the dying man out for all to see. Army tanks are called to break down the entrance. Morgan grabs a pistol from the prisoner assigned to watch the guards. He finds Kent cowering with the guard but spares him. Kent panics and flees before Morgan locks the guards in to save their lives. When Kent tries to open the front doors, he is killed in the crossfire. Butch is told that Morgan was the "stoolie" who tipped off the warden and learns he has put the guards out of danger. He sets out to kill his former friend. In the ensuing gunfight, both are wounded, Butch fatally. Before he dies, he learns that Kent was actually the informer, and he and Morgan reconcile. For his efforts, Morgan is given a full pardon. When he exits the prison, Anne rushes to embrace him.'
'romantic comedy','Pierre Mirande (Maurice Chevalier) is a Venetian tour guide from a poor French family who falls in love with Barbara Billings (Claudette Colbert), a wealthy American tourist. Barbara loves Pierre in return, but her suitor Ronnie (Frank Lyon) and her father (George Barbier) see him as a fortune hunter. Barbara''s mother (Marion Ballou) persuades her husband to give Pierre a job in his chewing-gum factory in the States. Despite living in a dingy boardinghouse and being given the hardest job in the plant, he manages to captivate his landlady (Andrée Corday) and the maid (Elaine Koch) with his humorous songs. Unfortunately, he falls asleep on the night he is to attend Barbara''s party, and then he is fired when he''s wrongly accused of spilling rum on some chewing gum samples. He wins back his job and is promoted when he sells liquor-coated chewing gum as a sales gimmick. Barbara disapproves and plans to marry Ronnie, but Pierre whisks her away in a speedboat.[3][4]'
'western','A large caravan of settlers attempt to cross the Oregon Trail. Breck Coleman (John Wayne) is a young trapper who just got back to Missouri from his travels near Santa Fe, seeking to avenge the death of an old trapper friend who was killed the winter before along the Santa Fe Trail for his furs, by Red Flack (Tyrone Power, Sr.) and his minion Lopez (Charles Stevens). At a large trading post owned by a man named Wellmore, Coleman sees Flack and suspects him right away as being one of the killers. Flack likewise suspects Coleman as being somebody who knows too much about the killing. Coleman is asked by a large group of settlers to scout their caravan west, and declines, until he learns that Flack and Lopez were just hired by Wellmore to boss a bull train along the as-yet-unblazed Oregon Trail to a trading post in northern Oregon Territory (which at the time extended into current British Columbia), owned by another Missouri fur trader. Coleman agrees to scout for the train, so he can keep an eye on the villains and kill them as soon as they reach their destination. The caravan of settlers in their Prairie schooners would follow Wellmore''s ox-drawn train of Conestoga Wagons, as the first major group of settlers to move west on the Oregon Trail. The film is set somewhere between 1837 and 1845.[notes 1] This is historically accurate, as the first major wave of settlers on the Oregon Trail was in 1843, although the details were completely different. Coleman finds love with young Ruth Cameron (Marguerite Churchill), whom he''d kissed accidentally, mistaking her for somebody else. Unwilling to accept her attraction toward him, Ruth gets rather close to a gambler acquaintance of Flack''s, Thorpe (Ian Keith), who joined the trail after being caught gambling. Coleman and Flack have to lead the settlers west, while Flack does everything he can to have Coleman killed before he finds any proof of what he''d done. The three villains'' main reason for going west is to avoid the hangman''s noose for previous crimes, and all three receive frontier justice instead. The settlers trail ends in an un-named valley, where Coleman and Ruth finally settle down together amidst giant redwoods.'
'mystery','Looking out from his private balcony, elderly Prof. Dillard and his servant see the body of family friend Joseph Robin with an arrow in his chest. Dillard calls district attorney Markham, who brings in private detective Philo Vance and lazy police detective Heath. Vance quickly deduces that the arrow scene was staged (Robin was actually bludgeoned inside the house), but there is no obvious suspect. Vance and the others repeatedly interview Dillard and his friends and neighbors. Living with Dillard is his niece Belle; Dillard''s adopted son, Sigurd Arnesson, who is also Belle''s boyfriend, returns from college on hearing of the crime. In the next house are the Drukkers, a brother and sister: she feels responsible for a serious injury he still suffers from, and is now very frail and agoraphobic. She says she saw nothing of the crime; her brother says he heard her screaming in her room, which she denies. He also admits to being in Dillard''s house before the murder. Another neighbor is John Pardee, a chess enthusiast, who seems to be overly interested in the case. A taunting typewritten note is found, signed "The Bishop". It alludes to the nursery rhyme "Cock Robin": Robin was nicknamed Cock Robin, and another visitor at the house that day was named Sperling—German for "Sparrow". However, Sperling eventually proves to have a solid alibi. Dillard has no typewriter in the house, and neither Drukker''s nor Bishop''s matches the note. Later a friend of Arnesson''s, named John, is found murdered. He was shot in the top of the head, apparently in allusion to Jack''s injury in the rhyme "Jack and Jill". Then Drukker, sitting on a low wall in a park at night, is pulled off the wall and murdered. "The Bishop" continues sending notes about each crime, connecting the last one to "Humpty Dumpty". Drukker''s sister is found dead also, perhaps from fright, and a valuable notebook about his research work is missing from their home. A chess bishop has been left in her hand. Heath and Markham become suspicious of Pardee and go to arrest him, but find him dead. Next to his body, obviously built after he died, is a house of cards with a chess bishop on top: it is "This Is the House That Jack Built". Later, Dillard expresses some misgivings about Arnesson, and mentions the Henrik Ibsen play The Pretenders, which Arnesson is fond of. That night, after Belle says goodnight to Arnesson, she makes her way into the attic and finds the typewriter that "The Bishop" used for his notes. At this point she is jumped from behind. Mulling over Dillard''s words later that night, Vance suddenly realizes that one of the characters in The Pretenders is a bishop—named Arnesson. He rushes back to Dillard''s house together with Markham, Heath, and more police. Arnesson''s window is open and neither he nor Belle is in their room. Dillard joins the group to search the house, breaking down the locked door to the attic. There they find the typewriter, but not Belle, who is lying bound and gagged in a nearby cupola. Downstairs, they are talking to Dillard when Arnesson returns. When Vance accuses him, he acts guilty. Meanwhile Dillard surreptitiously pours some powder from a compartment in his ring into a wine glass. As things calm down and Arnesson is about to be arrested, Dillard offers him a glass, then pours more wine for himself; but Vance announces that he has switched the glasses. Dillard is the murderer, and was trying to fake Arnesson''s suicide. He wanted to be Belle''s only friend. He originally only intended to kill Robin and frame Arnesson, but developed the more elaborate scheme when he realized Miss Drukker must have witnessed his actions. Vance had tipped Arnesson to act guilty, and had Heath search the cupola after Dillard left the attic; Belle is fine. Arnesson and Belle embrace, and Vance stops Heath from carelessly drinking the poison.'
'drama, crime','A gangster, Louis Beretti, gets caught involved in a jewelry heist and taken to see the judge. The war has begun and hoping to use the publicity to get re-elected, the judge offers Louis and his two buddies, the choice of going to jail, or signing up to fight in the war - if they prove themselves, he will throw away their arrests. Louis makes it home from the war (one of his buddies was killed), and opens up a night club downtown that becomes very successful. His employees are former members of his gang, and he maintains contact with "Big", still a gangster. Louis falls for the sister of his buddy who was killed in the war, but she already has plans to marry. He tells her nevertheless, that if she ever needs him, she should call and he will come. When her baby is kidnapped (her husband is away), she does call for Louis and he realizes that the kidnapping has been done by "Big" and the gang. Louis goes to save the baby and confront those of the gang who have taken part in the kidnapping. Shots are exchanged. After he returns the baby to his mother, Louis goes back to his nightclub where "Big" is waiting. They talk of old times though they realize they will need to shoot it out, which they do...'
'comedy','Peter Foley (Rex Lease) is a beneficiary of his grandfather, who leaves him $800,000 in his will, on the condition that he gets married. Peter is very interested in getting the money, especially since he has debts, and plans to marry Alice Blake (Vera Reynolds) as soon as she arrives from Kansas City. He plans to take her to his Uncle Henry''s (Charles Sellon) home before midnight to actually get the inheritance. The uncle needs to see the girl whom Peter is about to marry before he will turn over the money. Alice''s airplane is delayed, though. Parker (Sam Hardy), Peter''s creditor, insists that his own girl friend, Julia (Nita Martan), pose as Peter''s wife in the meantime. Alice is informed by Joe Blair (Robert Livingston), a man who is secretly interested in marrying Alice himself, that Peter is actually married to Julia. Alice agrees to marry Joe if this is true. Peter and Julia are pursued by Bull (Paul Hurst), a motorcycle policeman who loves Julia. Further complications arise at Uncle Henry''s, when lawyer Winstead (Harry Todd), who is found bound and gagged, agrees to marry them. The uncle, revealed to be posing as a paralytic, is exposed as a villain, but Peter and Alice are ultimately married before the last hour appointed in the will.'
'comedy','Ian Keith plays a French military attaché in Madrid who romantically pursues the wives of various government officials. Betty Compson and Mary Duncan play the objects of his attention.'
'musical','The film takes place during a period in which Austria controlled Italy during the Austro-Italian War of 1830. Colonel Vultow, played by Walter Pidgeon, leader of Austrian cavalry regiment, is sent to Italy to put down a revolt led by the Lombardian aristocracy. Vultow decides to go to the castle of Count Adrian Beltrami, played by Allan Prior, one of the leaders of the revolution. This happens to be Beltrami''s wedding day. As he is emerging from the church following his wedding to Countess Anna-Marie (Vivienne Segal), Beltrami learns that Colonel Vultow is quickly approaching the town in search of him. At the behest of his bride, Beltrami flees the castle, but he asks Tangy, a silhouette cutter, to impersonate him and protect Anna-Marie. When Adrian returns in disguise, he is introduced to Vultow as a singer and silhouette cutter, and when the count demands he create a silhouette, he enlists Tangy''s aid. The deception is discovered, and Vultow sentences Adrian to death by a firing squad unless Anna-Marie submits to his sexual demands. Eager to save her husband, Anna-Marie shows a portrait of her great-grandmother to Vultow and explains why the woman is wearing only an ermine cloak. Her ancestor once killed a man to protect her honor, and the countess fears she will be forced to do the same. The painting comes to life and Anna-Marie''s great-grandmother steps down from the frame and embraces Vultow, now drunk on champagne. He falls asleep and dreams Anna-Marie willingly gives herself to him, and when he awakens, he orders Adrian to be freed in the mistaken belief Anna-Marie is now his. When Vultow receives news that the Italian troops are advancing, he departs, and the count and countess are reunited. The film was full of so much Pre-Code humor that it ran into censorship problems in many areas.[2] The film drew large crowds in Chicago where it played as an "Adults Only" feature. The soundtrack reveals some amazingly suggestive dialogue. In one sequence, Myrna Loy (playing a depraved dancer named Sophie) finds out Vultow (Walter Pidgeon) who had previously fallen for her charms and made love to her has met with Anna-Marie (Vivienne Segal) and fallen for her charms and has completely forgotten about her. Sophie declares "I''ll get him back! I''ll dance until his blood is steaming!" and proceeds to begin a smoldering dance number on top of a long dinner table in a very seductive manner in an attempt to lure back Vultow from the charms of Anna-Marie. In another scene, Vultow has a conversation with Anna-Marie. He believes he has had sexual relations with her during the previous night. In reality, however, he dozed off after drinking too much liquor and dreamed the entire episode. The conversation runs as follows:'
'musical','Successful actress Louanne (Dorothy Mackaill) is about to marry a rich man instead of the man she really loves, Wally Dean (Frank Fay). As the film begins, Louanne is giving her last performance as she plans to retire once she is married. A group of reporters comes to interview Louanne and while she tells them a story which she thinks is appropriate for a soon-to-be wife of a wealthy socialite, the scene flashes back to her actual past. It is revealed that Louanne was once a dancer at a low-class cafe. Portuguese smuggler Miguel Parada (Noah Beery), took an interest in her and attempted to force his affections on her. Wally Dean, who was, even then, her constant companion, manages to escape with her from the cafe as a riot is about to start. Another flashback shows Wally as a barker at a carnival with Louanne as a dancer. Again Wally saves Louanne from an imminent riot. Back in the present, Louanne continues to lie to the reporters and tell them about her genteel background. Fish (Frank McHugh), one of the reporters, does not believe her story but says nothing. When Louanne returns to the stage to resume her performance, Miguel, who happens to be in the audience, recognizes her and goes to her dressing room because he has some "unfinished business" with her. Louanne enters her dressing room and is shocked to find Miguel. Wally soon appears and pretends he has a gun to intimidate Miguel; he gives the "gun" to Connie Lamont (James Murray) because he has to go on stage. While Connie is guarding Miguel, a fight erupts between the two and Miguel reveals that he has a real gun. In the struggle for it, Miguel is shot and he dies. When the police arrive, Wally tries to convince the police that Miguel committed suicide to save Louanne from a scandal before her marriage. Louanne''s friend Peggy (Inez Courtney) also gives false testimony to save her. The police remain unconvinced until the reporter, Fish, gives false testimony that he actually saw Miguel pull the trigger. Louanne is cleared and realizes that she really loves Wally. She cancels her engagement to her rich fiancé and is united with Wally.'
'musical','In Seville, Spain, a cantina is located across the street from San Agustín convent. At the convent, postulant Maria Consuelo Vargas (Dorothy Jordan) receives a visit from her brother, Captain Enrique Vargas (Russell Hopton). They have not seen each other in seven years, as he has been stationed in Africa. During the intervening time, their mother has died, which left Maria alone in the world, until she entered the convent. Enrique is thrilled that she will soon be married to God. Maria is enthralled by the music that comes from across the street – implying that she wants to explore life outside the convent - but Enrique prefers that she remain behind the safety of the convent walls, as he considers the outside world evil. After Enrique leaves, Maria peers over the convent walls to watch Juan de Dios (Ramon Novarro) perform at the cantina. Later in the set, Juan sings and dances with his partner, Lola (Renée Adorée). After the set, Juan flirts with some female customers, which irks Lola. Juan walks Lola home, during which time he treats her badly, knowing that she is in love with him, and thus will tolerate the abuse. At home, Juan meets with his music teacher, Esteban (Ernest Torrence). Esteban believes Juan has the makings of a great singer like he himself once was. Esteban squandered away his fame and fortune by reckless behavior – the same reckless behavior Juan now exhibits – which he is trying to steer Juan away from. If his old contacts will listen, Esteban plans to take Juan to Madrid so that he can truly become a great serious singer under the management of one of the great impresarios. After a day outing at the market where he steals some oranges and some cloth and thus is trying to escape from the police, Juan runs into Maria in a private courtyard, she who he has never met. She has escaped from the convent and is stealing a dress from a clothes line to replace her convent garb. She leaves a token for the dress. She recognizes him. As she tells him she has no home, he, who is immediately attracted to her, takes her home with him. Maria eventually tells Juan that she has escaped from the convent to find “him”, as she has always been drawn to the magic that is his singing. Then, Lola shows up. Juan is able to make her go away without knowing that Maria is there. Esteban believes Maria to be nothing more than a street harlot, but Juan is able to convince him that she is a child of God. Juan then tells Esteban that they will indeed go to Madrid, and bring Maria along as their housekeeper. At the convent, Enrique is trying to find Maria. The Mother Superior (Nance O''Neil) tells him that as Maria had not yet taken her vows, she was free to leave. Maria being drawn to music may provide a clue as to her whereabouts. Then, Lola arrives – she has found a convent garment in Juan’s room, the garment which Enrique and the Mother Superior recognize as Maria’s. Enrique vows to travel to Madrid to kill Juan. In Madrid, Juan, Esteban and Maria rent a three-bedroom flat that is managed by a music aficionado, La Rumbarita (Mathilde Comont). A once great singer used to reside there, which they all believe is karma. Later at the audition with impresario Mischa, Juan displays his arrogant attitude about what he sees as the greatness of his singing. Although the audition is technically sound, Mischa tells Juan that he has no soul in his singing, and that he needs to have his heart broken to achieve true greatness. As such, Mischa, will not accept him as a client. After Juan storms out in disgust, Esteban negotiates payment – all the money that he has - to Mischa to take Juan on as a client in lower level musical events, Juan not to know the financial arrangement. Mischa happily agrees, seeing this arrangement as a windfall. Back at the flat, Juan, angry about Mischa’s assessment, takes it out on Maria by berating her. But seeing how loyal she is to him, Juan changes his tune and declares his undying love for her. They embrace. Later, he visits a priest to make arrangements for their marriage. As Juan tells Esteban and La Rumbarita of the wedding, they go off to buy items for an engagement celebration party, but not before Esteban is able to tell Juan that Mischa has arranged for him to sing Pagliacci that evening. Juan is excited, but believes that Mischa has just come to his senses, not knowing about Esteban and Mischa’s financial arrangement. While Juan is alone at the flat, Enrique tracks Juan down, ready to kill him. Although they initially argue about the situation with Maria, Enrique, with a little help from Lola, is able to convince Juan to send Maria back to the convent, as his act of love is stealing her away from her vow to God, and that she would always be seen as harlot if they were to get married, thus sending her to eternal damnation. Knowing that Maria will not go willingly, Juan convinces Maria that he no longer loves her as he has reconciled with Lola. A tearful Maria, now believing the outside world is evil as Enrique once said, leaves with her brother back to Seville and San Agustín. Despite Juan’s broken heart, Esteban is able to convince Juan to proceed with the performance of Pagliacci by telling him the truth about his and Mischa’s financial arrangement. Juan’s performance ends up being a triumph, with Juan emotionally spent after it. Mischa remarks that this Juan and the Juan at the audition are two totally different people. Mischa now wants to sign a legitimate contract with Juan. Regardless, Juan does not recover emotionally. As Esteban takes him back to Seville, Juan is bedridden, dying from a broken heart. Seeing what is happening to Juan, Lola decides to go to the convent to tell Maria the truth about their deception, which Lola now knows will lead to certain death for both Juan and Maria of broken hearts. Maria rushes to Juan’s side, the two who enter into a loving embrace.'
'drama','Sergeant Grischa Paprotkin of the Imperial Russian Army has been captured by the Imperial German Army during World War I, and is interned in a Prisoner-of-war camp. When his chance comes to escape, he takes it, ending up staying with a young Russian refugee, Babka. However, after a time, he longs to return to his home in Russia. Babka, even though she has fallen in love with him, agrees to help him. Since he cannot travel under his real name, being an escaped POW, Babka obtains the credentials of a dead Russian soldier, Bjuscheff. After leaving Babka''s, on his way back to his home in Russia, he stops at a friend of Babka''s, who lives in Mervinsk. When a German soldier arrives at the house, Grischa hides in the basement. As he is about to leave, the soldier notices the Russian soldier''s cap which Grischa has dropped on his way to the cellar. Grischa is captured, after which it is discovered that his false identity is that of a Russian spy, for which he is sentenced to execution. While in captivity, Grischa''s real identity is uncovered, but the German command refuses to reverse his sentence. Babka and her friends make plans to help him escape once again, at the same time as a powerful general in the German army, von Lychow, hears about his case and decides to intercede on his behalf. Grischa refuses the help of Babka, putting his trust with von Lychow. When von Lychow meets with the German Commander-in-Chief, General Schieffenzahn, they argue over Grischa''s case, von Lychow pleading for leniency, while Schieffenzahn wanting the execution to go forward as soon as possible. They end their argument without seeing eye-to-eye, but after von Lychow departs, Schieffenzahn changes his mind and sends an order to cancel the execution. However, a storm has caused the wires to be down, and the message never arrives. Grischa is executed by firing squad.'
'musical','Carlie and Terry constitute a vaudeville team in a traveling musical show; also in the company are Eddie, the stage manager; Bonnie, a comedian; and Polly, the wardrobe mistress. Terry''s habit of constantly falling in love with the leading lady causes him to marry Daphne, a two-timing songstress. When he finds her with another man, Terry threatens to kill himself, but his little partner reassures him that "Happy Days Are Here Again," and the show goes on.'
'comedy','Amos and Andy run the "Fresh Air Taxicab Company, Incorporated", so named because their one taxi has no top. Their old vehicle has broken down, causing a traffic jam. Stuck in the traffic jam are John Blair and his wife, who were on their way to meet an old family friend at the train station, Richard Williams. When the Blairs do not show up, he makes his own way to their house, where he meets their daughter, Jean, who was also his childhood sweetheart. The two reignite their old flame, much to the chagrin of Ralph Crawford, who has been attempting to woo Jean himself. That night, prior to attending a meeting at their lodge, the Mystic Knights of the Sea, they are hired to transport Duke Ellington and His Cotton Club band to a party being given at the Blair estate. While they are on their way, Richard is confiding to John Blair his feelings for his daughter, and also stating that he has no intention of pursuing Jean unless he can afford to start his own business to support them. After the death of his father, Richard''s family lost all their money. He has come up to New York because his grandfather used to own a large home in Harlem, and he hopes to be able to find the deed to it, in order to sell it for the money needed to start his business. He thinks the deed must be hidden somewhere on the property itself. Unknown to Blair or Richard, is that Ralph is eavesdropping on their conversation. After his discussion with Blair, Richard runs into Amos and Andy, who used to work for his father down south, and they are all happy to see one another. Having delivered their fare, the two cab drivers rush back to town to attend their lodge meeting. The lodge has an annual tradition where a pair of members must spend a night in a haunted house in Harlem, and find a document labeled, "Check and Double Check". Once they find it, they are to replace it, in a different location, with their own version, for the lodge members to find the following year. The haunted house in question in none other than the house previously owned by Richard''s grandfather. As Amos and Andy are searching for their document, Ralph is also in the house with several of his cohorts, searching for the deed, in order to thwart Richard''s chances with Jean. Amos and Andy find their document, but then realize they did not bring any other paper to write their message on and secrete for their lodge brothers. In searching for something to write on, they stumble on the deed to premises. As they are about to write their message on the back, they are interrupted by Ralph and his friends, who believe that the two have found the deed. In the confusion which ensues, the cab drivers hand over what everyone believes is the deed, before they scamper out of the building. However, when they return to the lodge, they realize that they had given the Check and Double Check paper to Ralph, instead of the dead. They do not know the importance of the document they have, but they recognized Richard''s grandfather''s signature on it, and intend to deliver it to Richard the following day. After failing to find the deed, a heartbroken Richard leaves for the railway station, intending to return home. Amos and Andy arrive at the Blair house too late to give him the deed, but race to the station and are able to hand over the deed just before Richard''s train leaves. Now with the deed, Richard can sell the house, open his business, and marry Jean.'
'musical comedy','Danny, an acclaimed singer and songwriter, falls in love with a socialite girl who is just playing around. He doesn''t realize that his girl-Friday is the one he really loves until it is almost too late. Although he is awestruck by high society, he overhears the girl''s admission that she is stringing him along just in time to avoid marriage. Danny is notably Jewish, and among the issues the movie raises is his temptation to assimilate into the larger culture. The film is an adaptation of a play that riffed on the real-life relationship between songwriter Irving Berlin and Long Island socialite Ellin Mackay, which was all over the gossip columns in the late 1920s. Mackay''s millionaire father cut her off and did not speak to her for years because, after a long courtship, she married Berlin, who was Jewish. (Unlike the fickle debutante in the film, Mackay stayed with Berlin, and their marriage lasted over sixty years.) The film is played against a theatrical backdrop, and contains many songs and production numbers.'
'drama','After their father is killed, brother and sister Margaret and Victor Holt devote themselves to bringing down the drug gang responsible for his death. Victor rises to become an attorney in the district attorney''s office, and eventually Margaret wangles her way into becoming the secretary for James (Marco) Morton, the head of the drug ring. When Morton discovers Margaret''s true identity, he contrives a plot to lure her brother into a trap and kill him. Margaret learns of the plot and rushes to save her brother. In the ensuing melee, she kills Morton in her attempt to save Victor, who is also seemingly killed. Afraid of being convicted of murder, she flees the scene. In hiding, she becomes friends with a mystery author, Winthrop Clavering, and a reporter, John Howell, the truth about the murder is revealed, and it is discovered that Victor was not killed, but is being held prisoner by the drug ring. Victor is rescued, and Margaret and John develop a romantic relationship.'
'drama','Bennett plays Mary Colbrook, the widowed mother of seven children living in Sioux City, Iowa. She moves with them to Cambridge, Massachusetts to educate her children with culture and give them every advantage. Mary, who is unversed in financial matters, soon faces poverty for herself and her children. She takes out a loan from an unscrupulous lender, James Rudlin, who neglects to ask her for collateral. Mary is later only able to partially pay her creditors. Muriel, Mary''s eldest daughter, is shocked by her mother''s actions and attempts to sacrifice herself to Rudlin to clear her mother''s obligations, although she is engaged to marry a well-to-do Harvard undergraduate. A stern aunt appears and is hell bent on taking her brother''s children away from their mother. The aunt manages to turn Bennett''s children against their mother, with the exception of her son, Bill, who, fortuitously, inherits the fortune of a neighbouring spinster which allows Mary to be reunited with the rest of her children. Mary discovers noble qualities in Rudlin and agrees to become his future wife.'
'musical comedy','Professor Bird (Woolsey) and his partner, Sparrow (Wheeler), are a pair of charlatan fortune tellers who are bankrupt and stranded at a Mexican resort just south of the border. An heiress, Ruth Chester (June Clyde), appears, who is running away from her aunt, Fanny Furst (Jobyna Howland). She is in love with an American pilot, Billy Shannon (Hugh Trevor), but her aunt wishes her to marry the European nobleman, The Baron (Ivan Lebedeff), whom the aunt believes is the "right" type of person for her niece. Sparrow, meanwhile has fallen in love with a young American girl, Anita (Dorothy Lee), who has been living with a band of Gypsies. This creates an issue, since the leader of the Gypsy band, Julius (Mitchell Lewis), has had his eye on Anita for years. When Fannie Furst arrives, she attempts to persuade Ruth into marrying the Baron, but unbeknownst by Fannie, The Baron is only interested in marrying Ruth for her money. During the course of events, Fannie falls in love with Bird, but when the Baron finds out that Ruth is engaged to Billy, he conspires with Julius to kidnap her. During the kidnapping, Anita is also taken, and the girls are taken deeper into Mexico. Bird, Sparrow and Billy track them down and recover the girls, and they live happily ever after.'
'romantic comedy','Grant Withers is a conceited dancer who spends all his free time dancing. He leaves his partner Edna Murphy, after seeing Sue Carol in the dance hall. He enters the waltz contest with Carol and ends up winning the first prize. Soon after they are convinced to marry by Sid Silvers (the dance hall manager), who needs a new couple to marry in a live ceremony in the dance-hall after another couple cancelled. He convinces them when he offers them a free furnished apartment which the other couple forfeited by not showing up. Withers'' and Carol''s parents are shocked by news of the marriage. Withers soon gets bored of home-life and the in-laws and yearns for dancing again. He convinces Carol to join him in a dance contest, but when she is unable to perform the dance steps of a new fox-trot, they fight. The fighting continues until they split up. After a while, Grant realizes what he has lost but thinks it may be too late to patch things up.'
'comedy, western','Helen Kane takes the lead role as an entertainer in a traveling medicine show run by her boss. Muldoon, one of the members of the medicine show, is a fugitive who is on the run from a murder charge. It''s up to Dangerous Nan McGrew, the Sharpshooting singer, to save the day. The medicine show gets stranded at the snowbound hunting lodge of a wealthy woman. Performing at a Christmas Eve show for the lodge guests, the saxophone-playing nephew of the landlady falls in love with Nan. Enter the villain, a bank robber (how did he get through the snow?). Can the Royal Canadian Mounted Police be far behind? You betcha!'
'drama, war','During World War I, the pilots of an RFC squadron deal with the stress of combat primarily through nightly bouts of heavy drinking. The two aces of the squadron''s "A Flight", Courtney (Richard Barthelmess) and Scott (Douglas Fairbanks Jr), have come to hate the commanding officer, Brand (Neil Hamilton), blaming him for sending new recruits directly into combat in inferior aircraft. Unknown to them, Brand has been arguing continually with higher command to allow practice time for the new pilots, but command is desperate to maintain air superiority and orders them into combat as soon as they arrive. Brand is so disliked by the two he cannot even easily join the men for the nightly partying, drinking alone and clearly breaking under the strain. The tension grows worse when an elite German squadron led by "von Richter" takes up position just across the front lines from them. After losing several of the squadron''s veteran pilots, the ranks become increasingly made up of new recruits, who have absolutely no chance against the German veterans. Von Richter issues a taunt that Courtney and Scott answer by attacking the Germans'' airdrome in defiance of orders from Brand not to go up against them. Brand gets revenge when he is recalled to headquarters and Courtney is made squadron commander. Courtney quickly learns the misery that Brand endured when four patrols a day are ordered and his pleas not to send green men ignored. Scott and Courtney have a falling out when Scott''s younger brother is one of the new replacements and is immediately ordered on a mission. He is killed flying the Dawn Patrol. Brand returns with orders for what amounts to a suicide mission far behind enemy lines. Courtney is forbidden to fly the mission, so Scott angrily volunteers. Courtney gets him drunk and flies off in his stead. He shoots down von Richter returning from the successful mission but is killed by another German pilot. Scott becomes squadron commander and reads orders to his new replacements.'
'comedy','After selling his house and belongings in East Africa, upper-class black sheep Willie Hale (Colman) returns home to England, where he buys a dog with most of his remaining money. Lord Leeland (Kerr), his wealthy father, is furious and insists to Susan and Arthur, his other adult offspring, that he will kick his wayward son out if he dares show his face, seeing as he has given Willie ten starts in life already. However, when Willie does show up, the old man gives him £100 spending money instead. After seeing his old girlfriend, theatre star Mary Crayle (Loy), Willie meets family friend and heiress Dorothy Hope (Young). He takes Dorothy and Susan to the Derby, where he and Dorothy have a wonderful time (and he wins a great deal of money betting on a 50-1 longshot). Dorothy then breaks her engagement to Grand Duke Paul (Cavanagh) because she finds bankrupt Willie far more charming. Willie is reluctant to get involved with her, but when her father insists he will disinherit her if she marries Willie, he promptly proposes to her. She accepts, on condition that he promise to never see Mary ever again. Willie is unable to break the news to Mary by letter or telephone call, so he waits for her outside the theatre. She insists he come home with her, where he is finally able to tell her about his engagement. However, Mr. Hope gets Dorothy to agree to break up with Willie if he breaks his promise. He then hires a detective agency to watch the young man. He has Dorothy call Mary on the telephone. When Willie answers, she is heartbroken. When Willie goes to try to explain himself, Dorothy pays him £5000 for the bitter "experience", assuming that he was merely after her inheritance. She is astonished when he walks off with the check, whistling. Willie has no intention of keeping the money. After he hears that Paul is actually destitute, he sends the full sum to the man under Dorothy''s name. Paul gladly accepts it. Paul sends a note to Dorothy thanking her, delighting Dorothy and disillusioning her father. Dorothy and Willie make up before he sets sail for New Zealand to start a sheep farm. Much to Lord Leeland''s delight, Dorothy''s father offers to buy him a farm in England; if Willie fails this time, Dorothy''s father will be footing the bill, not him.'
'drama','A golddigger marries a young man for his money, but finds that she really loves him and wants to keep him despite his family''s disapproval.'
'drama','Ted (Chester Morris), Jerry (Norma Shearer), Paul (Conrad Nagel), and Dorothy (Helen Johnson) are part of the New York in-crowd. Jerry''s decision to marry Ted crushes Paul. He gets drunk and is involved in an accident that leaves Dorothy''s face disfigured. Out of pity, Paul marries Dorothy. Ted and Jerry have been married for three years when she discovers that he had a brief affair with another woman — and when she confronts him on their third anniversary, he tells her it did not "mean a thing." Upset, and with Ted out on a business trip, Jerry spends the night with his best friend, Don. Upon Ted''s return, she tells him that she "balanced [their] accounts", withholding Don''s name. Ted is hypocritically outraged, and they argue which ends with Ted leaving her and the couple filing for a divorce. While Jerry turns to partying to forget her sorrows, Ted becomes an alcoholic. Paul and Jerry run into each other, and she discovers that he still loves her and is willing to leave Dorothy to be with her. Only after she meets Dorothy is Jerry forced to evaluate her decision.'
'musical','Dixiana Caldwell and her friends, Peewee and Ginger, are circus performers in the antebellum South. When Dixiana falls in love with a young Southern aristocrat, Carl Van Horn, she leaves the circus where she is employed and, with Peewee and Ginger, accompanies Carl to his family''s plantation in order to meet Van Horn''s family. At first thrilled with the news of their impending nuptials, Carl''s father and stepmother, Cornelius and Birdie Van Horn, throw a lavish party for the couple. However, Peewee and Ginger inadvertently disclose Dixiana''s background as a circus performer, creating a scandal for the elder Van Horns. Asked by the stepmother to leave in disgrace, Dixiana and her friends return to New Orleans, seeking to gain re-employment from her former employer at the Cayetano Circus Theatre, but they are regretfully refused by him, due to way she had departed. Desperate, she takes employment at a local gambling hall, run by Royal Montague, who also has personal designs on Dixiana. As part of his plan, he intends to financially ruin Carl and his family and use Dixiana to accomplish that purpose. Things come to a head when Dixiana is crowned Queen of the Mardi Gras. When Montague absconds with her, Carl challenges him to a duel, but, when a disguised Dixiana shows up in his stead, she tricks Montague into revealing his nefarious plans. Carl and Dixiana are reunited.[4]'
'drama, crime','Lew Ayres plays as a young Chicago gang leader who is so successful that he becomes the underworld boss of the entire city. He meets Dorothy Mathews and immediately falls in love with her. Unfortunately, Mathews is a gold-digger who is secretly in love with Ayres''s best friend, played by James Cagney. Ayres ends up marrying Mathews, who continues to be unfaithful to him during her marriage. Ayres eventually gets tired of being a gangster and attempts to go straight.[4] Against the advice of all his underworld friends, Ayres buys a house in the country in Florida and brings along his wife. Cagney is left in charge of the gangsters and through his ineptitude things quickly become chaotic. Although his former friends plead for Ayres to return he ignores them and spends his time in the country writing his autobiography. In order to force Ayres to come back, some of the gangsters kidnap his younger brother, played by Leon Janney. Unfortunately, Janney is accidentally killed by a truck. Swearing revenge on the men who killed his brother, Ayres returns to the city.'
'comedy','Elmer (Keaton), a member of the idle rich, is smitten by working girl Mary (Sally Eilers), who will have nothing to do with him. When Elmer''s chauffeur gets caught up in an army recruitment drive and quits, Elmer goes to an employment agency to find a new driver and accidentally enlists in the army. Elmer learns that Mary is on the base to entertain the troops and learns that his drill sergeant, Brophy (Edward Brophy), is also interested in Mary.'
'comedy','In a small town in Virginia, Barbara Kent, is being forced into a marriage with a missionary reformer by her socially prominent parents. Kent meets Robert Armstrong, a prizefighter, and falls in love with him. Armstrong''s manager, played by James Gleason, tries to dissuade Armstrong from the relationship. Nevertheless, Kent''s grandmother, played by Beryl Mercer, and her uncle, played by Claude Gillingwater, do their best to help the romance between Kent and Armstrong. Eventually Kent and Armstrong quarrel, and this leads Kent to agree to her mother''s request that she marry the missionary (Arthur Hoyt). When the missionary invites some weak sisters to a revival meeting one of them, a showgirl, accuses him of being responsible for her downfall. Because of this, the missionary is publicly disgraced and the marriage cancelled. Gleason helps Armstrong become reconciled with Kent and they marry with the blessings of the family.'
'drama','Alice Kendall is the darling of her social set, the sons and daughters of millionaires, although Alice''s mother has impoverished herself to provide Alice the luxuries she expects as her right. Mom blows what''s left of her fortune to provide the best trousseau that money can buy when Alice marries Fred Garlan, and then wishes Fred lots of luck. Now, Alice is trying to coax Fred into buying her a new sable coat---all of her friends are sporting them---while Fred is busily trying to borrow enough money to keep his business afloat. The marriage business certainly isn''t working as Alice wants. She just doesn''t know how she can be seen if she isn''t wearing a new sable coat. But help is lurking just around the corner in the form of a sleaze-ball named Morrell. He''s a stock-broker and he is a bachelor and he enjoys the benefits of married life by making available sable coats to little brides who are in dire need of one and whose husbands can''t meet their needs.'
'comedy','When Johnny Quinlan loses his job in a drug store, he is afraid to tell his wife, Bertha, and therefore keeps up the pretense of leaving each morning for a non-existent job, as he begins the search for a new job. As the days pass and he is unable to find employment, their household, which includes his sister, Lottie, and Bertha''s brother, Dan Walsh, goes through what little savings they have. As he gets more desperate, he agrees to do small jobs for "Nifty" Herman, a small-time gangster. Nifty had loaned Johnny $15, as part of a plan to entice him to work for him. After Johnny gets insulted by a common laborer job offer from a neighbor, Nifty lies to him and says that he has a friend who will get him a managerial position at a liquor store. All Johnny has to do is hold onto a case of high-priced alcohol for a few days. Dubious, Johnny reluctantly agrees and takes the suitcase back to his apartment. However, when Bertha finds out who he got the suitcase from, she demands that he return it, threatening to leave him if he doesn''t. Taking the case back to Nifty, he finds the office locked, and so returns home. When he arrives, his sister''s suitor, Charles Newton, is visiting. Newton is a government agent. Even though Johnny tries to hide the case, his efforts are futile, and Newton spies it and becomes suspicious, seeing a resemblance to a case he and his men have been attempting to track down. Opening it, he discovers it contains a cache of drugs. When he interrogates Johnny, he gets the whole story, and is about to arrest Johnny, when Nifty arrives to retrieve the suitcase. Johnny tricks Nifty into confessing, and then subdues him, when he is resisting the efforts of Newton and his deputies to arrest him. The film ends with Johnny being rewarded for the way he handled himself by becoming Newton''s assistant.'
'romantic comedy','The Lenox family of Long Island, headed by Bronson (Frank Morgan) and Carrie (Winifred Harris), is wealthy and respectful of tradition, but their children Bertie (Henry Wadsworth) and Marion (Miriam Hopkins) are more irreverent. When Bertie gets involved with a chorus girl, Alice O''Neil (Carole Lombard), and Marion falls in love with Henry Morgan (Charles Starrett), an auto mechanic, the family tries to intervene to prevent their children from marrying beneath themselves.[2][4]'
'comedy','Harold Horne, an ambitious shoe salesman in Honolulu, unknowingly meets the boss'' secretary Barbara (Barbara Kent) - thinking she is the boss'' daughter - and tells her he is a millionaire leather tycoon. Horne spends much of his time around Barbara hiding his true circumstances, in both the shoe store and later as an (accidental) stowaway on board a ship. Trying to evade the ship''s crew, he becomes trapped in a mailbag, which is taken off the ship and falls off a delivery cart onto a window cleaner''s cradle, which is hoisted upwards. Escaping from the bag, he finds himself dangling high above the streets of Los Angeles. After several thwarted attempts to get inside the building, he climbs to the very top, only to slip off - unaware his foot is caught on the end of a rope, which rescues him inches from the ground.'
'drama','A chorus girl gets bad advice from her fellow chorines in handling a rich suitor who assumes she is a gold-digger. But she assumes he is after "one thing" and is holding out for marriage. After meeting his mother, she learn that her beau is engaged to a society girl. He loses his money and they drift apart. But after making a new fortune, he comes to the theater.'
'drama','In New York City, William Foster (William Powell) is a criminal defense attorney so successful that prosecutors regard him as a menace. He holds himself to high ethical standards but is willing to mislead without actually lying. Foster defends a man who planned a murder using explosives. District Attorney Stone (William B. Davidson) displays a vial and says chemical tests have shown that the liquid in it is sensitive nitroglycerin. Foster sniffs the liquid, questions him to verify the chain of custody, and then smashes the vial dramatically on the floor. When order is restored, he explains to the judge that he knew it was safe because nitro has a distinctive smell, and Stone says he had removed the actual nitro for safety after the chemical test. But Foster points out that only the liquid now in the bottle was entered into evidence, and wins his case. Foster is in love with actress Irene Manners (Kay Francis), and she loves him, but she wants to be married and he does not. When another suitor, Jack Defoe (Scott Kolk), proposes to her, she says she needs to tell Foster about him before she can accept; but she finds she cannot do so. She stays out late enough at night with Defoe to leave only one implication of what they were doing, and while driving him home, she does agree to marry him. He suddenly hugs her and she loses control of the car, killing a bystander. To protect Irene''s reputation, Defoe urges her to leave the scene, lying that the victim is not badly hurt. Presumed to have been driving while drunk, he is charged with manslaughter. They both still conceal her involvement, but she begs Foster to defend him. He asks why she cares enough about Defoe to insist; she says she and Defoe are just friends, but she had already promised him on Foster''s behalf, assuming Foster would be willing. Foster agrees, but finds that Defoe cannot tell a credible story at trial. Then Foster finds out that Irene was at the accident scene and therefore must be much more than "just friends" with Defoe. Foster is crushed, but she still begs him to get Defoe acquitted, while Defoe fears Foster will throw the case and Irene will be charged and convicted as well. Foster eventually puts his love for Irene first and, for the first time in his life, bribes a juror to vote not guilty, hanging the jury. Foster is quickly found out and arrested, and defends himself at trial. As he will not see Irene, she goes to Stone, admits what really happened at the accident, and says Foster was only trying to protect her. If Stone does not agree to recommend mercy, Irene says, she will tell her story in court. Stone says he will think about it. Although his defense is going well, Foster then offers to plead guilty (and thus be disbarred, no doubt making life easier for prosecutors in future) if only Stone will agree not to retry Defoe; but Stone says he does not make deals. Back in court, Irene sends Foster a note pleading to let her testify and tell the truth. To protect her, Foster immediately changes his plea to guilty. Stone then tells Foster that neither Defoe nor Irene will be prosecuted. As Foster arrives at Sing Sing to serve his sentence, Irene is there and says she will be waiting for him when he comes out. He says that if she does, then he will marry her.'
'crime','When Rose Manning''s father is killed during a robbery by Inspector McArthur, Manning vows to avenge his death. Five years elapse, and Rose is now the owner of a nightclub, and her liquor supplier, the bootlegger Chuck Gaines is interested in her. Still plotting her revenge, she meets Jimmy McArthur, who she does not realize is the son of the inspector. Spurning Gaines'' advances, Rose becomes romantically involved with Jimmy. Her motivations waver as her emotional attachment to the young McArthur grows, until her relationship takes precedence over her revenge. Chuck, jealous of the growing relationship between Rose and Jimmy, plots with his cohort, Bing Murdock, to murder both the inspector and his son. Uncovering the plan, Rose is attempting to warn Jimmy, when his father raids her club. In the ensuing chaos, Jimmy kills Gaines in order to protect Rose, after Gaines attacked her in a fit of jealous rage. When the inspector finally realizes that what Rose and Jimmy have is real affection for one another, he removes any objections over their relationship.'
'comedy','When small-town girl Elvira Plunkett (Anita Page) wins a contest that sends her to Hollywood for a screen test at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM), she is accompanied by her overbearing mother (Trixie Friganza) and Elmer J. Butts (Buster Keaton), a gas-station attendant who goes along as Elvira''s manager. Elmer is secretly in love with Elvira, but on the train they meet MGM contract actor Larry Mitchell (Robert Montgomery), who falls for her as well, and has the connections to make her a star. In Hollywood, Elmer manages to bungle his way through numerous films being shot on the MGM lot, disrupting production. When given a screen test, he can''t manage to say his one line correctly. Despite this, both he and Elvira''s mother are given film contracts, and appear in a comic opera together. Elmer want to tell Elvira that he loves her, but hints at it in such a way that she mistakes it for advice on how to tell Larry that she loves him.'
'mystery','Fifi Sands (Wilson) is married to Mr. Sands (Love), an unpleasant millionaire, who is constantly cheating on her. Being fed up with his affairs, Mrs. Wilson, who is in love with Owen McDonald (von Eltz), asks Love for a divorce but he constantly refuses. Mr. Sands''s lawyer (Warner), manages to prevent Wilson from filing for divorce for a while. One evening, at a dinner party given by Smith (Brooke), Wilson announces that her husband has finally granted her a divorce. McDonald, however, is disappointed to find that she did not ask for a settlement or alimony. Later, Alan Sands (Sage), Wilson''s son, discovered that his father had been murdered with poison and accuses McDonald of the deed and chastises his mother for protecting him. Sands'' s lawyer accuses McDonald of being a penniless fortune-hunter. This further blackens the case again McDonald. Dr. Cummings, who is the family doctor (Birmingham). is also suspected because of his unusual interest in Fifi. Fifi is also a suspect because she seems distraught during the dinner party, which occurred on the night that Mr. Sands was murdered. Fifi at first quarrels with Oliver Bedlow (Warner) and orders him out of her house. Later on she turns to him for help. He at first seem uninterested in helping, but when he discovers that Fifi is not in love with McDonald, he agrees to help her. Bedlow then locks the apartment door and begins to discuss the case. Mrs. Sands''s loyal servants are coached in their testimony by Warner but they are unable to remember their lines. After an intensive investigation of suspects in the death of Mr. Sands, Bedlow breaks down and confesses to the crime. Bedlow declares his love for Fifi, but is rejected and commits suicide by falling out of a window.'
'drama','The film takes place in the 18th century Austria and revolves around Prince Christian, commonly known as General Crack (John Barrymore). His father had been a respectable member of the nobility but his mother was a gypsy. General Crack, as a soldier of fortune, spent his adult life selling his services to the highest bidder. He espouses the doubtful cause of Leopold II of Austria (Lowell Sherman) after demanding the sister of the emperor in marriage as well as half of the gold of the Empire. Before he has finished his work, however, he meets a gypsy dancer (Armida) and weds her. Complications arise when he takes his gypsy wife to the Austrian court and falls desperately in love with the emperor''s sister (Marian Nixon). The court sequence was originally in Technicolor and proved to be Barrymore''s last appearance in color.[2]'
'romance','Jim, a British Lord, suffers from pyrophobia, a fear of fire, which he developed during the war. Unable to cope with his condition, he flees civilization, coming to rest in the island paradise of Suva, in Fiji. As he is attempting to drink himself into forgetfulness, he meets Josie, who is a showgirl stranded on the island. Josie had become friends with Kalita, who talked the owner of the bar into giving Josie a job. It is in the bar where Jim and Josie meet, and the two develop a liking for one another, which causes McEwen, the local heavy to become jealous. After McEwen challenges Jim to a fight, which Jim backs away from, causing those around him to believe he has a cowardly streak. Josie, however, continues to believe in him. McEwen steps up his animosity towards Jim, taunting him into following McEwen to the nearby island of Benga, where McEwen intends to force Jim to participate in the local custom of fire-walking. Jim, forced to confront his fear, overcomes it, and passes through the fire pit, after which he defeats McEwen in a fight, and ends up with Josie.'
'comedy','Tom Ward, a cocky young football hero, returns home after graduation determined to conquer the world. He begins a flirtation with Mary Howe, secretary to his rival, McAndrews, and in a restaurant he bribes a waiter to spill soup on her employer. Although offered a local banking job, Tom stakes his fortunes on a scheme to sell bonds to wealthy old Hattie Brown, a befuddled spinster, and achieves the difficult task while posing as a doctor by getting her drunk. Finally, desperate over Mary''s engagement to McAndrews, Tom kidnaps her from the altar. In a chase finale she is convinced that he loves her.'
'mystery','The story opens with a murder that has supposedly been caused by a gorilla. Police are only able to catch a glimpse of his black shadow cast against a brick wall before he disappears. Garrity (Frisco) and Mulligan (Gribbon) are two detectives who are hired by Cyrus Stevens (Maxwell) to help protect him from the gorilla as he has just been threatened with a note that indicates that the gorilla will arrive at his home before midnight. Stevens lives with his ward, Alice Denby (Lee), who is in love with Arthur Marsden (Pidgeon). Garrity and Mulligan stand guard outside the house until it is close to midnight but do not see anything suspicious. Eventually, Garrity is persuaded by Mulligan to put on a gorilla skin in order to entice the gorilla and trap him. In order not to be shot by those searching for the gorilla, he wears a white ribbon around his neck. While Garrity is searching for the gorilla, the real gorilla appears and begins to chase Mulligan. He manages to climb up a tree and calls for help but no one comes to his aid. The gorilla breaks off a branch of the tree and Mulligan falls to the ground. The gorilla now finds Garrity, who has hidden in another tree. While reaching for Garrity, the gorilla manages to reach the white ribbon and he then places it around his neck. The gorilla now goes around freely while Garrity, being unable to take the monkey head off, is being hunted down as being the real gorilla. Eventually, Garrity manages to get the head off but is still pursued and shot at in the dark until he manages to get into a lighted area. Marsden, who turns out to be an undercover detective, eventually discovers that the real murderer is Stevens.'
'adventure','A small plane carrying three British citizens — Major Crespin (H.B. Warner), his estranged wife Lucilla (Alice Joyce), and pilot Dr. Traherne (Ralph Forbes) — becomes lost and is forced to crash land in the tiny realm of Rukh, somewhere near the Himalaya Mountains. The Raja (George Arliss) who rules the land welcomes them. However, as his three brothers are soon to be executed for murder by the British, his subjects believe that their Green Goddess has delivered into their hands three victims for their revenge. The three are to be killed once the brothers are dead. The Raja professes to his guests no great love for his brothers, as they had posed a danger to the succession of his own children, but sees no reason to anger his people. However, he becomes attracted to Lucilla and offers to spare her life if she will become his wife. She refuses. The prisoners become aware that the Raja has a telegraph, operated by the Raja''s renegade British exile and chief assistant, Watkins (Ivan F. Simpson). Hoping to send for help, they try to bribe Watkins, but when they realize he is only leading them on, they throw him off the balcony to his death. Major Crespin manages to send a message before the Raja''s men break into the room. The Raja personally shoots Crespin in the back, killing him in mid-transmission. The next day, Traherne and Lucilla are taken to the temple of the Green Goddess. Once more, the Raja renews his offer to Lucilla, but is again turned down. Given a moment alone, Traherne and Lucilla confess their love for each other. Then, in the nick of time, six British biplanes appear in the skies over Rukh. Lt. Cardew (Reginald Sheffield) lands and demands the release of the couple. The Raja gives in.'
'operetta','The story takes place in colonial Africa, where Dawn is a white girl, kidnapped in infancy and is being brought up by a black native, Mooda, who runs a canteen in the now German colonial settlement. Dawn falls in love with a British rubber planter, Tom Allen, who is now a prisoner of war. The native black leader of the tribes in that region is also in love with Dawn and becomes extremely jealous when he hears of Dawn''s love for Allen, who, in turn, is sent back to Britain by the Germans for attempting to steal Dawn, whom they believe is half black. Eventually, the British regain control of the territory and drive out the Germans. Allen returns to the colony. When the settlement experiences a drought, the local tribal leader attempts to incite the natives against Dawn, claiming God is angry because Dawn has dared to love a white man. Allen is unable to save Dawn because the colonial authorities refuse to act unless they have proof that Dawn is one hundred percent white. Eventually Dawn''s "mother" (Mooda) confesses that she is not Dawn''s true mother and that Dawn''s real mother was white which Dawn''s father confirms. Allen quickly brings British troops just as the natives are about to sacrifice Dawn. During the ceremony however, one of the virgin priestesses reveals that the jealous tribal leader has been lying about Dawn and that God is not interested in Dawn as she is pure white. Furthermore she reveals that the tribal leader had violated her (the priestess''s) chastity and claims the true reason for God''s anger was this sacrilegious act. The tribal leader is deposed and sacrificed to the anger of the natives and the drought quickly ends as rain pours down. In the end, Dawn and Allen, happily reunited, sail back to England together.'
'musical','Rollo Smith (Joe E. Brown) and his friend Jack Lane (Lawrence Gray) are down on their luck and have stowed away on a train, finding a place in the compartment of ace pilot and writer Robert Story (Arthur Hoyt). The conductor (Fred Kelsey) tosses the pair off the train just where the famous writer is supposed to arrive, with Rollo being mistaken for Story. Peggy Freeman (Laura Lee) and May Bunch (May Boley) both vie for Rollo''s attention, believing that he is a famous pilot. The two freeloaders get free room and meals at the Palm Inn and everything is going well until Story is invited to fly in an air race, facing a real aviator, "Ace" Benton (Walter Pidgeon), and a chance to win a $25,000 wager. The only problem is that Rollo has never even been in an aircraft. With the girls betting on him, and Peggy disguised as his mechanic and smuggling aboard an aircraft, he somehow makes it into the air, but then everything becomes harried as he can barely control the aircraft. Ferguson (Max Wagner), the real pilot who Peggy had locked in a closet, shows up, but Rollo continues to put on an aerial show, forcing Ace to abandon the race. When Peggy accidentally pulls her parachute ring, Rollo joins her as they safely float to earth and he proposes.'
'drama','The titular character is a temperamental but lovable retired London barrister now living in the country with his granddaughter Virginia. Ernest Heron, Virginia''s beau, returns from South Africa with a valuable diamond, and that night he is attacked and the gem is stolen. The only clue to the perpetrator''s identity is a camellia Ernest is found clutching in his hand. Suspicion falls upon Chamberlin Jarvis, an acquaintance of Virginia who was a houseguest at the time, and Grumpy follows him when he returns to the city, where he tries to sell the diamond to Berci. Knowing Jarvis is a suspect, Berci turns him away, and the thief, frightened by a confrontation with Grumpy, eventually returns to the country, returns the jewel, and is arrested.'
'comedy','During World War I, two American Doughboys, Tommy Turner and Gilbert Simpson, are more interested in picking up girls than in military duty. In Paris, they go AWOL in order to follow their libertine pursuits. They alternate between impersonating officers in order to impress the ladies, and avoiding being found out by the military police. During their hijinks, the pair accidentally steal the car of Colonel Marshall (their commanding officer), which is how Tommy meets and falls in love with Annette, who unbeknownst to him is Colonel Marshall''s younger daughter. The Colonel has been tasked with organizing a major offensive at the front. His older daughter, Eileen, is in love with a young Lieutenant, Jim Reed. The Colonel intends to send Reed to the front with the orders. However, to get Tommy and Gilbert back in the Colonel''s good graces, Annette and the Colonel''s paramour, Olga, who has taken an interest in Gilbert, scheme by stealing the orders from Reed and giving them to the boys, so that they can be the ones to carry them to the front. After a dramatic scene at the front, the two are apprehended by the MPs, and brought to Colonel Marshall, for justice. He readies the firing squad, but after the two point out that the "secret papers" they were carrying to the commanding General, was actually a love letter from Olga to the very married Colonel. The Colonel then agrees to allow Tommy to marry his youngest daughter Annette and Gilbert will marry Olga. The Colonel also gives his consent to the marriage between his oldest daughter, Eileen, and Jim Reed.'
'comedy','Geoffrey Clarke is a poor poet, who has his eyes on the fortune of a rich widow, Alice Frayne, in order to keep him in the lifestyle he feels he deserves. Geoffrey is pursued, however, by the young and lovely, yet poor, Monica Grey. Monica, in turn, is pursued by the chemist, Austin Lowe. When Geoffrey tells Monica that she would be better off with Austin, she is disdainful of the suggestion. Undaunted, he sets the two of them up to have dinner at Geoffrey''s apartment. During the dinner, Monica is completely unimpressed with Austin, but when she discovers that Alice has been financially supporting Geoffrey, out of spite she agrees to marry Austin. Regretting her decision, later, when she learns that Alice intends to marry Geoffrey, Monica becomes desperate and falsely accuses Geoffrey in front of the others of having ruined her. This causes Alice to break off her engagement with Geoffrey. However, it has a drastic effect on Austin, who gets a pistol and takes a very poorly aimed shot at Geoffrey. Standing up for her honor causes Monica to re-evaluate her feelings for Austin, and she agrees, this time for real, to marry him. When the falsity of Monica''s claim is revealed, Geoffrey and Alice reconcile as well.'
'drama','Anita Morgan, a descendant of the famous pirate Henry Morgan, is living a carefree and careless life on an island in the Caribbean, but would much rather be living the same life In Havana. When she learns that her father, in exchange for money, has promised her hand in marriage to one of his swarthy friends, she is more convinced that Havana is the place to be. When an American comes to the island to buy some pearls, she falls in love with him. and when she discovers he is to be tricked out of his money and killed, she makes plans to save him...and go to Havana with him.'
'drama, war','Roy (James Hall) and Monte Rutledge (Ben Lyon) are very different British brothers. Strait-laced Roy loves and idealizes the apparently demure Helen (Jean Harlow). Monte, on the other hand, is a womanizer. Their German friend and fellow Oxford student Karl (John Darrow) is against the idea of having to fight England when World War I breaks out. Meanwhile, the oblivious Monte is caught in the arms of a woman by her German officer husband (Lucien Prival), who insists upon a duel the next day. Monte flees that night. When Roy is mistaken for his brother, he goes ahead with the duel and is shot in the arm. Karl is conscripted into the German Air Force, and the two British brothers enlist in the Royal Flying Corps (RFC), Monte only to get a kiss from a girl at the recruiting station. When Roy finally introduces Monte to Helen, she invites Monte to her flat. Monte tries to rebuff her advances for his brother''s sake, but gives in. The next morning, however, he is for once ashamed of himself. Meanwhile, Karl is an officer aboard a Zeppelin airship sent to bomb Trafalgar Square, London. As the bombardier-observer, he is lowered below the clouds in a spy basket. He deliberately guides the Zeppelin over water, where the bombs have no effect. Four RFC fighters are sent to intercept the Zeppelin. Roy pilots one, with Monte as his gunner. To gain altitude more quickly, the airship commander (Carl von Haartman) orders everything possible be jettisoned. When that is not enough, he decides to sacrifice Karl by cutting the cable that secures his pod. He then accepts the advice of another officer; the officer and other crewmen obediently leap to their deaths "for Kaiser and fatherland". German machine gunners shoot down three aircraft; Roy and Monte survive a crash landing. After his machine guns jam or run out of ammunition, the last British pilot aloft dives his fighter into the dirigible, sending it crashing in a blazing fireball. The brothers narrowly avoid the debris. Later, in France, Monte is branded a coward for shirking his duty when his replacement is shot down in his place. When a Staff Colonel asks for two volunteers for a suicide mission, Roy and Monte step up. They are to destroy a vital enemy munitions depot their squadron had tried to blow up for days. They will sneak in using a captured German bomber the next morning so that a British brigade will have a chance in their otherwise hopeless afternoon attack. That night, Roy discovers a drunk Helen in a nightclub with Captain Redfield. When he tries to take her home, she turns on him, revealing that she never loved him, that she was, in fact, not the young innocent he believed her to be. Devastated, Roy joins Monte for some carousing. Monte decides not to go on the mission and nearly persuades Roy to do the same, but in the end, Roy drags Monte back to the airfield. The raid on the German munitions dump is successful. However, they are spotted in the act by a flight of German fighters from the Flying Circus, led by Manfred von Richthofen. Monte defends the bomber with a machine gun until their squadron arrives, and a dogfight breaks out. Their buddy "Baldy" shoots down the one German who is still targeting the bomber, but then von Richthofen swoops in and shoots the brothers down. They are captured. They are given the option of talking or facing a firing squad by none other than Roy''s old dueling opponent. Monte decides to save his life. Unable to change his brother''s mind, Roy convinces Monte that he should speak with the German general alone. He offers to tell what he knows on condition that there is no witness to his treason. The general is persuaded to give him a pistol (with one bullet) to kill Monte. Roy fails to get Monte to do the right thing, and has no choice but to shoot his brother in the back. Afterward, Roy is executed. The British attack gets off to a successful start.'
'western','Four men, Bob Sangster, "Barbwire" Gibbons, "Wild Bill" Kearney, and José, rob the bank in the town of New Jerusalem. José and the cashier is killed, while Barbwire is shot in the shoulder. The three outlaws escape the posse, fleeing into the desert. However, their horses die and they have little water. When they reach a water hole, they are dismayed to find that not only is it dry, but there is a pregnant woman stranded there. She gives birth to a boy. Before she dies from her ordeal, she makes the three the child''s godfathers and begs them to take him to his father, Frank Edwards ... the cashier they murdered. Bob wants to abandon the boy, but the other two are determined to honor the woman''s request. They start walking the 40 miles to New Jerusalem. Weakened by his wound, Barbwire eventually can go no further. He makes the others continue on without him, then shoots himself. That night, they stop to rest. When Bob wakes up the next morning, he finds Bill gone. A note explains he left to conserve the little remaining water. Bob goes on, discarding his belongings along the way, including finally the loot. At one point, he leaves the baby, but then picks him up again. His strength gives out just as he reaches a poisoned water hole. Then, he comes up with a plan. He drinks his fill, knowing that he will have about an hour before it kills him. He stumbles into New Jerusalem''s church, where the congregation is celebrating Christmas. Then, his task completed, he dies without uttering a word.'
'drama','A bootlegger in trouble with the law hides out on a college campus. He disguises himself as a student, but soon becomes the school''s star athlete and most popular man on campus.'
'musical, comedy','A new country family comes to live among established wealthy neighbors.'
'comedy','Looloo (Walker) runs a diner which is frequented with U.S. Navy sailors on shore leave, including officers. Two officers, Admiral Smith (Henderson) and Lieutenant Allen (MacDonald) accompany a wealthy socialite, Mrs. Payne (Clayton), to the establishment. Mrs. Payne is an heiress, and when she engages in conversation with Looloo, she expresses admiration for the necklace Looloo is wearing. She offers to purchase it for a substantial sum, but it is a family heirloom and Looloo refuses. Later, two sailors arrive at the diner, Bilge (Oakie) and Clarence (Ovey), looking for Lavinia, Clarence''s sweetheart who has run away. Bilge, is smitten with Looloo, and begins to romance her. Opening up to her, he reveals his desire to become the captain of his own ship after he leaves the navy. Before things go too far, Bilge''s shipmates drag him back to his ship, which is scheduled to set sail. Based on her conversation with Bilge, Looloo decides to sell her necklace to Mrs. Payne, in order to get the funds necessary to buy a ship for Bilge. When Bilge''s ship docks once again, the two lovers are re-united, and Bilge proposes to Looloo, who happily accepts. However, when she tells him about the money, and the plans she''s made to help him buy his own ship, his pride makes him indignant and he storms off. However, he later returns and the two agree to marry.'
'musical comedy','Brown plays Gink Schiner, a third-rate fighter who is at the same training camp as Georges La Verne (played by Georges Carpentier), a contender for the heavyweight championship. Although he needs to be concentrating all of his energies on the upcoming bout, Georges keeps getting distracted: Norine Lloyd, a society dame, has a distinct interest in him, but the interest is strictly one-sided. Georges prefers Sue, an old buddy and confidante. Gink has woman trouble of his own, as his flirtations do not sit at all well with Toots (played by Winnie Lightner), his erstwhile girlfriend. More trouble arrives when Larkin, manager of current heavyweight champ Bob Morgan, appears at the camp with the goal of fixing the fight. He is sent packing, after which he attempts to slip a Mickey Finn to the challenger—a plan which goes awry when Gink switches the drinks. Meanwhile, Gink, who is fighting in a preliminary in advance of the big fight, actually wins. Things don''t look so bright for Georges, who initially gets the worst of it in his encounter with Morgan, but who eventually comes out on top.'
'comedy','Two fast-talking insurance salesmen — Wilbur Boswell and J. Addington Ganzy — help penniless socialite Mary Marsh to turn a dilapidated hotel, which was willed to her, into a thriving success. They soon run into trouble, however, in the form of two sets of rival gangsters who want to break into the hotel safe; also, Mary''s mother, Rebecca Marsh, wants her to marry wealthy lawyer John Blackwell, although Mary has fallen in love with Wilbur. And while she takes an instant dislike to Wilbur, Rebecca falls for Ganzy. Adding to the complications is the fact that Blackwell is actually in league with the gangsters. The finale involves nighttime runarounds and a shoot-out in the hotel. During the pitched battle between the rival gangs and the police, Boswell and Ganzy save the jewels, after which Ganzy marries Rebecca, and then gives away Mary at her marriage to Wilbur.'
'comedy','Jim Dolan, with a little help from his grandmother, shows the Pittsburgh baseball team what a good pitcher he can be. Jim also becomes involved in romance with Elaine, the manager''s daughter, while Maizie, a gold digger, schemes to come between them. Ballpark vendor Benny, by coincidence, becomes the team''s catcher while his quirky sweetheart, Cookie, cheers him on. Jim becomes arrogant, alienates teammates and is even suspended, but snaps out of it in time to save the big game of the World Series.'
'drama, war','Jane Gershon is engaged to Eric Woodhouse, living in Germany prior to the onset of World War I. When the war breaks out, they are forced to separate, but are reunited months later in Gibraltar, at the British fortress there. Both are supposedly German spies with orders to destroy the British fleet, anchored in the harbor. Not fully trusting either of them, the German government has sent another agent, the Hindu Amahdi, to ensure that their sabotage plans are carried out. Both Jane and Eric believe the sincerity of the other as a German agent. When it appears that Jane''s attempt to destroy the fleet is uncovered, to save her, Eric takes the blame and seemingly commits suicide. However, when Ahmadi uncovers the truth that Jane is really a double agent for the British government, he attempts to go through with the sabotage. When he is about to kill Jane, Eric reappears and kills him. Jane discovers Eric is also a British double agent and they are happily reunited.'
'adventure','Monte Blue, a young miner, manages to escape from some cannibals in the South Seas who have killed all of his companions. He arrives at the island of Samora with a bag of gold which he managed to save. Here he meets a brutal man, played by Noah Beery, and a pitiable woman, played by Betty Compson, who had been forced into a secret marriage with Beery. They both run a small hotel. Compson immediately sympathizes with the plight of Blue while Beery sets his greedy eyes on his gold. After the death of Compson''s mother, Blue escapes with her to another island. Here they meet an exotic native girl, played by Myrna Loy, who falls in love with Blue and desperately tries to divert his love away from Compson. Eventually, Beery discovers the whereabouts of his wife and arrives on the island.'
'war','On the eve of a battle in 1918, a new officer, Second Lieutenant Raleigh (David Manners), joins Captain Stanhope''s (Colin Clive) company in the British trench lines in France. The two men knew each other at school: the younger Raleigh hero-worshipping Stanhope, while Stanhope has come to love Raleigh''s sister. But the Stanhope whom Raleigh encounters now is a changed man who, after three years at the front, has turned to drink and seems close to a breakdown. Stanhope is terrified that Raleigh will betray Stanhope''s decline to his sister, whom Stanhope still hopes to marry after the war. An older officer, the avuncular Lieutenant Osborne (Ian Maclaren), desperately tries to keep Stanhope from cracking. Osborne and Raleigh are selected to lead a raiding party on the German trenches where a number of the British forces are killed, including Osborne. Later, when Raleigh too is mortally wounded, Stanhope faces a desperate time as, grief-stricken and without close friends, he prepares to face another furious enemy attack.'
'musical','In 1980, J-21 (John Garrick) sets his aircraft on "hover" mode in New York, lands and converses with the beautiful LN-18 (Maureen O''Sullivan). He describes how the marriage tribunal had refused to consider J-21''s marital filing and applications, and LN-18 is going to be forced to marry the conceited and mean MT-3 (Kenneth Thomson). J-21 plans to visit LN-18 that night. RT-42 (Frank Albertson) tries to cheer him up by taking him to see a horde of surgeons experimentally revive a man from 1930, who was struck by lightning while playing golf, and was killed. The man (originally named Peterson now is called Single O) is taken in hand by RT-42 and J-21, where it is revealed that aircraft have replaced cars, numbers have replaced names, pills have replaced food and liquor, and the only legal babies come from vending machines. That night, LN-18 feigns a headache, and her father and the despicable MT-3 decide to go to "the show" without her. The second they are gone, RT-42 and J-21 appear and woo B-27 and LN-18 respectively. MT-3 and LN-18''s father return quite early, as MT-3 was highly suspicious, and RT-42 and J-21 hide. However, the game is foiled by the moronic Single O (El Brendel), the man from 1930, becoming addicted to pill-highballs, getting drunk, and trying to get some more pill-highballs from J-21. J-21 is depressed, but is contacted by Z-4, the scientist. He is told that Z-4 (Hobart Bosworth) has built a "rocket plane" that can carry three men to Mars. After a farewell party where J-21 works, on the Pegasus, a dirigible they call an "air-liner," the rocket blasts off, carrying J-21, RT-42 and Single O, who has stowed away for the synthetic rum. Landing on Mars, they are received by the Queen, Looloo and the King, Loko. That night, Looloo and Loko take them to see a "show," a Martian opera, where a horde of trained Martian ourang-outangs dance about. They are suddenly attacked by Booboo and Boko, the evil twins (everyone on Mars is a twin) of the King and Queen. They escape and return to Earth, and as one of the first men on another planet, J-21 is permitted to marry LN-18. Finally, Single O is reunited with his aged son, Axel.'
'costume drama','Hajj, a rascally beggar on the periphery of the court of Baghdad, schemes to marry his daughter to royalty and to win the heart of the queen of the castle himself.'
'romantic drama','Aspiring artist, Jerry Strong, the son of a wealthy railroad tycoon, sneaks out of a party he allowed his friend Bill Standish to hold at his New York City penthouse apartment and studio. While out driving in the country, Jerry meets self-described "party girl" Kay Arnold, who is escaping from another party aboard a yacht, and gives her a ride back to the city. He sees something in her and offers her a job as his model for a painting titled "Hope". In their first session, Jerry wipes off her makeup to try to bring out her true nature. Perpetual partier and drunkard Standish thinks Kay looks fine just the way she is and invites her on a cruise to Havana. She declines his offer. As they get to know each other better, Kay falls in love with Jerry and comes to rue her tawdry past. This is reflected in her face, and she finally achieves a pose Jerry finds inspiring. He paints so late into the night that he offers to let her sleep on his couch. The next morning, Jerry''s father John shows up and demands he dismiss Kay and marry his longtime fiancée Claire Collins. John found out all about Kay''s checkered background and she does not deny the facts. When Jerry refuses, John cuts off all relations with his stubborn son. Kay decides to quit anyway for Jerry''s benefit. This forces him to declare he loves her. She suggests running off to Arizona. Jerry''s mother comes to see Kay. Though Kay convinces her that she genuinely loves Jerry, Mrs. Strong still begs her to give him up for his own good. Kay tearfully agrees and makes plans to go to Havana with Bill Standish. Her roommate and good friend, Dot Lamar, races to tell Jerry, but by the time she reaches him, the ship has sailed. Despondent, Kay tries to commit suicide by leaping into the water. When she awakens in the hospital, Jerry is waiting at her bedside.'
'drama','A man is left by his wife and assuming her to be gone forever, he remarries. Complications ensue when his original wife returns home.[2][3]'
'drama','Tony, a prosperous Italian vineyardist in California, advertises for a young wife, passing off a photograph of his handsome hired man, Buck, as himself. Lena, a San Francisco waitress, takes up the offer, and though she is disillusioned upon discovering the truth, she goes through with the marriage because of her desire to have a home and partially because of her weakness for Buck, whose efforts to take her away from Tony confirm her love for her husband.'
'drama','When Francisco Delfino (Richard Barthelmess) goes off to study for four years at a university in Mexico, his home in California is a part of Mexico. By the time he returns (around 1850), however, California in the hands of the United States. He finds his family living in fear and the family estate is in shambles. Although the land deeds granted by the Spanish throne are supposed to be recognized by the U.S. government as proof of ownership, some unscrupulous California land commissioners are attempting to cheat the landowners. Delfino becomes embroiled in an argument with a Federal official, Peter Harkness (Fred Kohler). When Delfino shows an interest in Rosita (Mary Astor), a girl that Harkness regards as his girlfriend, Delfino is tied up and lashed across the face. He is only saved from further assault by the sheriff, David Howard (James Rennie). Delfino embarks on a career of Robin Hood-style banditry to avenge the brutal treatment of the Spanish and Mexican settlers, and there is soon a price on his head. Now close friends with Delfino, Howard has fallen in love with his sister, Dolores (Marian Nixon). When their father is shot, Delfino avenges his murder. He delivers the deed to his family''s property to Howard, who allows him time to escape to Mexico — where Rosita promises to meet him.'
'comedy','Peggy is a Follies dancer who forsakes her life of carefree attachments in order to meet her goal of marrying a millionaire. Alas, her elderly husband, broker C. Morton Gibson, is a well-meaning bore, and soon Peggy begins seeking entertainment elsewhere. A year after their marriage, three significant events occur almost simultaneously. Peggy''s former boyfriend, Paul Lockridge, a composer and pianist who is in love with her and seems to have a funny quip for every occasion, returns from Paris. She reunites with him as he offers her his companionship as a diversion from her stuffy life. Also, Ralph Le Saint, a young devil-may-care sculptor who is still in love with Peggy, plans his suicide in a mood of bitterness, and Gibson''s daughter, Marjorie, returns from schooling abroad. Marjorie is soon paired with Ralph, and the romance that develops between them is paralleled by the adult affair between Peggy and Paul. Ralph and Marjorie''s escapades result in considerable trouble for Morton, while Paul implores Peggy to go to Paris with him, declaring "You are rich--dirty rich. You are dying. You need laughter to make you clean," but she refuses. When Marjorie plans to elope with Ralph, Peggy exposes the sculptor as a fortune hunter; and, dejected, he commits suicide. As a result, Peggy confesses her unhappiness to Gibson, then joins Paul and laughter in Paris.'
'drama','When Marion Corsey''s husband, Andrew, is conned out of a small fortune by Vivian Hepburn, she dedicates herself to recovering the money. In order to do so, she hides her identity and insinuates herself into the social circle of Vivian, by becoming her secretary, and studies the tactics employed by the sexy con-artist. While employed by Vivian, Marion meets Guy Tarlow, Vivian''s love interest. However, Guy seems to be interested Marion. Taking advantage of Guy''s interest, Marion turns the tables on the con-artists and, using Vivian''s own strategy, she cons Guy out of all the funds which were taken from Andrew. When her reverse larceny is discovered, Vivian enlists the help of Judge Perry, who is romantically interested in Vivian, in an attempt to recover her ill-gotten gains. In the end, however, Marion is able to prove that Vivian''s gambling club is not run honestly, and that Vivian herself is both a cheater and a thief. In light of the evidence, the Judge and Guy end their pursuit of Marion, and Vivian slinks away. Although their marriage is damaged, and may be over, Marion and Andrew decide to stay together as friends, and see how things work out.'
'musical comedy','Chick Evans is a Marine private in Honolulu, Hawaii. He falls for society girl Delphine Witherspoon, and begins to scheme as to how to win her over. His first plan involves impersonating an officer in order to get invited to a society party. However, when his Marine buddies decide to crash the party as well, his real rank is revealed, and so having the opposite effect on Delphine as he had planned. Despondent, he bares his soul to a mutual friend, Edna, who arranges to have the two reunited on Delphine''s yacht at sea. However, this meeting goes terribly wrong as well, and a desperate Chick convinces the yacht''s captain to fake a shipwreck in order to give him time to win Delphine over. Unfortunately, a real storm arises and the ship is actually wrecked, coming to rest on a desert island. While on the island, Chick''s persistence pays off, and he gets the girl. Not only that, on their return to Honolulu, he is hailed as a hero and promoted to captain.'
'comedy drama','Housewife Kitty Brown (Norma Shearer) doesn’t spend much time on her personal appearance. She is devoted to her husband Bob (Rod La Rocque). Kitty spends all her time seeing that Bob has everything he needs. Bob is embarrassed to be seen with his wife because he considers her dowdy and he doesn’t like the homemade clothes she wears. Kitty gets a shock when Bob’s latest girlfriend, Helen, shows up at their home. Kitty is polite to Helen and pretends that she has known about the affair all along but secretly she is broken-hearted. She excuses herself to go to her room and cry. Later that evening, she leaves Bob to get a divorce, taking their two children with her. Three years later, Bob is courting Diane (Sally Eilers). Diane’s grandmother, Mrs. Bouccicault (Marie Dressler), is a leader in local society and disapproves of the match. Mrs. Bouccicault invites Kitty for the weekend. Kitty is now a fashionable, very attractive woman. Mrs. Bouccicault hopes to use Kitty to break Diane and Bob up. Mrs. Bouccicault asks Kitty to steal a gentleman away from her granddaughter so Kitty flirts with each arriving male guest in turn assuming that each is the gentleman in question. Bob arrives and is surprised by Kitty’s appearance. They pretend to meet for the first time. The other weekend guests, including Towney (Gilbert Emery), Madge (Hedda Hopper), and Wallace (Tyrell Davis), are baffled by the way Bob and Kitty behave around each other. Kitty continues to flirt with the male guests. She speaks disdainfully of marriage and makes it clear she is happily divorced. Diane has long had an understanding with Bruce (Raymond Hackett), who is also a guest. Bruce loves Diane and is pained to see her with Bob. Townsend goes to the terrace outside Kitty’s room. She flirts with him. When Bob knocks on the door, Townsend hides. Bob begs Kitty to marry him again. Bob hears a sneeze and discovers Townsend hiding in the bathroom. He leaves through the terrace only to find Wallace waiting. Wallace has brought Kitty a poem. Disgusted and angry, Bob leaves. A few minutes later Mrs. Bouccicault comes to Kitty’s room to announce that Bob has just become engaged to Diane. The next day, Bob is upset to overhear Kitty making plans for a yachting trip with Towney. Kitty plans on leaving immediately, but her nanny shows up with Kitty and Bob’s children. The children are overjoyed to see their father. Bob tells Diane he still feels he is married to Kitty. Diane breaks up with Bob. Kitty says she doesn’t want him either. She says goodbye to Bob. He begs for another chance. Again, he asks her to marry him. She tearfully tells him she still loves him and she asks him to take her back.'
'musical comedy','Flo and Dot work in a Broadway music shop. Flo sings while Dot plays the piano. Their boss complains to them that they are not selling as much sheet music as they should, will have to change their technique. Flo sings a song for a customer, after which, one of Dot''s admirers, Monsieur LeMaire (Charles Judels), an eccentric Frenchman who owns a modiste shop, enters the shop. He begins annoying the boss by chatting with Dot and asking her out. When the boss tells him to come back after they finish working, LeMaire flies into a rage and throws sheet music all over the store. The boss immediately fires Dot and Flo. The scene moves to the apartment where the two women live. Dot is reading the newspaper and finds out her boyfriend has eloped with a rich elderly widow. She is so angry that she accepts Flo''s idea that they become gold-diggers. Flo suggests that their first victim be LeMaire and the next day they begin to work for him. LeMaire soon asks Dot and Flo to a private party. Flo tells him they would love to attend but they have no suitable clothes. LeMaire tells them that they can borrow clothes from his modiste shop. Dot and Flo agree to attend the party and then pack off all the clothes they can carry with them. They head off to the train station with their luggage of expensive clothes and decide to go to Havana to make some real money. Once Flo and Dot arrive in Havana they find that a millionaire, "A.J. Smith", who invented a famous soft drink, is staying at the hotel. They assume that a mean spirited and snobby acting man is the millionaire but the true millionaire is a young, pleasant and down to earth man. Dot falls in love with Smith, much to Flo''s chagrin. Smith, unbeknownst to Flo and Dot, is actually a gigolo looking for a rich woman to pay his meal ticket. Just as Dot is to marry Davidson, LeMaire arrives and exposes the two gold-diggers. Smith, who has fallen in love with Dot, writes a check to LeMaire to cover the amount he lost, and he ends up winning Dot as his future wife. A subplot involves Flo and Colonel Joy (Charles Butterworth), who raises horses. Colonel Joy is attracted to Flo and can''t stop talking to her, although she does her best to avoid him. After some time, Flo is convinced by the colonel that his horse can''t lose in the upcoming horse-race. She takes a chance and bets all her money, only to lose everything. Eventually they grow fond of each other and Colonel Joy proposed to Flo by the end of the film.'
'romantic comedy','Ann Harper Berry (Loretta Young), a young socialite, receives an inheritance of one million dollars from her deceased grandmother. The will stipulates, however, that she will only receive the money after she has been married to someone who meets with the approval of her two prudish aunts Sarah (Louise Fazenda) and Katherine (Ethel Wales) Harper. The will also stipulates that everyone will lose their inheritance if a scandal involving Ann occurs before she is married. In the case of a scandal, the entire estate will be donated to an organization for the welfare of cats and dogs. Ann, who is furious at being denied the right to marry who she pleases, decides to create a scandal. She advertises in the paper for an unscrupulous man to compromise her. Gilly Hayden (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr). answers the ad and arrives at Ann''s apartment. In order to make the affair as scandalous as possible, Ann''s maid asks Fairbanks to remove his clothing. Before the newspaper men arrive, Ann''s two aunts show up and attempt to force Gilly to marry their niece. Gilly, not wanting to force Ann into marriage, jumps out the window with nothing on but a woman''s robe. By this time, Ann and Gilly, though they had only spent a short time together, have already fallen in love. Lint Harper (Raymond Keane), Gilly''s roommate, becomes interested when Gilly tells him what happened with Ann. He decides to try to get Ann to marry him in order to get a part of her fortune. He takes her to a nightclub called the Circus Cafe. While there Ann meets Gilly and her two aunts, who are being escorted by two gigolos (two other roommates of Gilly), who have come to spy on their niece. The aunts become drunk through the machinations of the gigolos and when the club is raided they manage to escape with their aid. Ann blackmails her aunts into consenting to her marriage with Gilly, threatening to expose their scandalous behaviour at the nightclub if they don''t. This leaves the couple free to pursue their romance.'
'musical','An actress, Peggy, is stranded on the island of Caparoja, which is ruled by a local dictator, Sangredo. For a living, she sings in the local tavern, where she is seen by two sailors from a tramp steamer who are visiting the port, Johnny and Happy. Johnny falls in love with Peggy and plans to marry her, rescuing her from her exile. However, Sangredo hires Peggy to perform at a party he is throwing, when the original singer, Carlotta, backs out. When Johnny finds out about the agreement, he misunderstands their relationship, and blows up at her. Peggy gets furious in turn over the fact he could believe that about her, and calls the wedding off. At the party, Peggy relents, and sings a love song directly to Johnny, which angers Sangredo. He orders that Johnny be arrested, but Peggy steps forward to intercede on his behalf. She offers to spend the night with Sangredo, if he will release Johnny and let him sail with his steamer. He agrees, and Johnny is escorted to his ship. However, Johnny and Happy, sneak back to the town and break Peggy out of Sangredo''s house. Fleeing, they board the steamer, escaping from the island.'
'comedy','Peter Darby is an electrician sent on a call to the home of wealthy Jimmy Farnsworth. While there, Farnsworth is telling his friend, George Van Horne, that any two people can fall in love, under the right circumstances. When George expresses his skepticism, Jimmy bets him $5,000 that he can prove his contention. George agrees, on the condition that he can choose the two people, to which Jimmy also agrees. For the woman, much to the chagrin of Jimmy, George selects Betty Duncan, a bored socialite acquaintance of the two, who seems much more interested in solitary pursuits than men. When George is seemingly having difficulty deciding on the man, his eyes alight on Peter, who he selects. Jimmy, eager to win the bet as well as prove his theory, is not content with simply allowing nature to take its course. He approaches Peter and gets him to agree to woo Betty, posing as a member of the upper classes, in exchange for $2,500 and Jimmy''s financing of the wooing. When Jimmy takes Peter to be fitted with new clothes suitable for Jimmy''s high society circle, Peter meets Joan Bently, a woman whom Jimmy has repeatedly asked to marry him without success. Mistaking her for the target of the bet, Peter becomes excited, but Jimmy fervently corrects him. Under the pretense of being Jimmy''s friend, Peter reluctantly sets about romancing Betty at Jimmy''s estate. Jimmy''s schemes to help the two to warm up, as he provides flowers, a violinist, and other mood enhancers, such as scenting the parlor with perfume, and leaving a collection of Shelley''s poems out. However, Betty is more interested in Brooks, Jimmy''s butler. As time goes on, Peter gives in to his strong attraction to Joan. At first believing he is just like all the other blase wealthy idlers of her acquaintance, she warms to him when he reveals his zest for life. Encouraged, he reveals his humble status and manages to persuade her to leave with him the next morning. However, when Jimmy tells her that Peter has been romancing Betty, she thinks he is just a lying womanizer. Peter forces Jimmy to admit in front of everyone what had really gone on, then leaves. He is delighted when he finds Joan waiting for him in the taxi.'
'drama','Socialite Angela Brooks (Kay Johnson) discovers that her husband Bob (Reginald Denny) is cheating on her with Trixie (Lillian Roth), occasioned by the staid coldness Bob finds Angela to have developed after their marriage. Encouraged by her maid to fight for her happiness, Angela, after a farcical encounter at Trixie''s apartment, conceives a plan to win back her husband''s affections. An elaborate masquerade ball is to be held by her husband''s best friend Jimmy Wade (Roland Young) aboard the moored dirigible named the Zeppelin CB-P-55. Angela will attend, disguised as a mysterious devil woman—"Madam Satan"—to "vamp" her husband. Hidden behind her mask and wrapped in an alluring gown that reveals more than it covers, Angela will find her errant husband at the ball and teach him a lesson. Bob becomes bewitched by Angela in her disguise, nothing like the demure spouse he left at home. During the ball, several exotic musical numbers are performed. In the course of the frivolities, a thunderstorm causes the dirigible to start to break apart and everyone is forced to parachute to the ground. Angela, who by this time has unmasked and made herself known to the still-entranced Bob, gives Trixie her parachute, making her promise to leave Bob alone. Bob gives Angela his parachute, and she descends safely into—the back seat of a car in which a couple are necking. Bob rides a piece of the broken dirigible down, diving off before impact into "the city reservoir." Jimmy ends up in a tree in the middle of the lion enclosure at the zoo, while Trixie breaks through the roof of a Turkish bath full of toweled men who scramble to cover themselves. The next day, Angela, who is unharmed, and Bob, who has his arm in a sling, reconcile after a visit from a heavily bandaged Jimmy.'
'drama','The film takes place in Neu Posen, German East Africa sometime before the First World War. "Mamba" is the name given to a South African snake. The reptile of this adventure is Auguste Bolte (played by Jean Hersholt), who is constantly reminding those with whom he has a chance to converse that he can buy anything. He neglects his appearance and does not even bother to shave or brush his hair. The German officers hold themselves aloof from him and the only individual he has an opportunity to talk to at length is his valet-secretary, a Cockney, who feeds his master with flattery. One afternoon Bolte recalls that he has received a letter asking for 200,000 marks from Count von Linden. The Count is in Germany and in a footnote it is written that Bolte might marry von Linden''s daughter, Helen. The white people of the post have as little to do with Bolte as possible and the British officers across the frontier also spurn him. It occurs to Bolte that a beautiful wife would perhaps help to make life more agreeable for him. He thinks also that the officers would then overlook some of his failings and be quite impressed. He therefore allies himself to Germany. Helen (played by Eleanor Boardman), like most daughters who marry wealthy villains in melodramas, does so to save her father from ruin. There is a flash of the wedding and soon Helen and her ignoble husband are seen aboard the steamship bound for East Africa. On the same vessel is Karl von Reiden, the officer who is to take charge of the Neu Posen post. He is not averse to a little flirtation with a beautiful woman and therefore when Helen goes out on deck to avoid Bolte, Karl succeeds in meeting her. These scenes are fairly well filmed and the color effects are capital. Karl, played by Ralph Forbes, is a handsome fellow. So soon as he knows that Bolte is Helen''s husband he realizes that the marriage is not to her liking. Later these passengers are on the river boat, and when that craft reaches Neu Posen. Bolte stands on the aft deck hoping to make all the German officers envious of his attractive bride. He later gives a feast and takes good care to make a show of his wealth, even to having a procession of natives carrying the viands. A visit from a native woman interrupts the proceedings, and in a subsequent passage Bolte, enraged with his wife, is about to flog her with a whip when Karl comes to the rescue. All this happens just prior to the World War, and in the closing chapters word is received by both the Germans and the British that hostilities have been declared. Bolte, the snake, believes that money can buy his freedom from military service, but soon he learns otherwise. He is compelled to don a uniform and then decides to run away. His end is sudden, for he fires at one group of natives without knowing that others are behind him. They know something about Bolte and his pleas for his life fall on deaf ears. There follow episodes in which Karl goes to the rescue of Helen and others, who are in danger of an attack by the natives. These are pictured with due attention for red blood on the hero''s shirt. It seems that the Britishers might have been more solicitous about Karl''s wounds, but all the British commandant says when he comes up to Karl is to ask him whether he will have another Piccadilly cigarette.'
'musical','The story deals with the joys and tribulations of a travelling minstrel troupe known as the Merry Meadow Minstrels. Al Jolson plays as a blackface endman while Lowell Sherman plays as the interlocutor. Hobart Bosworth plays as the owner of the show, while his daughter, played by Lois Moran, serves as Al Jolson''s love interest in the picture. Sherman''s character, however, is also in love with Moran''s. The show is in a miserable state until Jolson entertains a sheriff and manages to convince him to invest in the show. The show becomes very successful thanks to this investment and Jolson is eventually able to visit his mother. Some time after he returns, he tells Moran that he loves her and this causes Sherman to become jealous. After a heated argument between Jolson and Sherman over Moran, a character played by Mitchell Lewis, who is upset because he was caught cheating at cards, puts real bullets in Jolson''s stage gun. Since Jolson pretends to shoot Sherman in the minstrel show act, Lewis knows that this will result in Sherman''s death and that Jolson will be blamed for the murder. After Sherman is shot, Jolson is arrested but manages to escape and take a freight train out of town. Eventually, Lewis confesses to the crime and Jolson is thereby proven to be innocent.'
'comedy','The trouble begins when Lord Strathpeffer (John Barrymore), who is on his way to visit an Egyptologist with a case of instruments used by entomologists, loses his way in the fog and wanders into the home (who lives next door to the Egyptologist) of a woman who is hosting a fancy dinner. Mr. and Mrs. Tidmarsh (Dick Henderson and Emily Fitzroy), a middle-class English couple, are giving a dinner party in honor of their wealthy uncle, Gabriel Gilwattle (Albert Gran), hoping to receive his financial aid in their struggle to keep up appearances. As a result of many of the invitees informing Mrs. Tidmarsh that they could not attend her party, she believes that only 13 guests will show up. As Gilwattle is a superstitious man, Mrs. Tidmarsh sends to the Blankley Employment Agency to send them a distinguished looking man to serve as a guest. In the meantime some other guests inform Fitzroy that they won''t be able to come and the hired man is no longer needed. She informs the agency that the man is no longer needed. Nevertheless, when Barrymore arrives at the door, they automatically assume that he was sent by the agency and invite him in to dinner. Mayhem ensues. Margery Seaton (Loretta Young), one of the dinner guests, recognizes Barrymore as a former lover, and therefore assumes him to be an impostor. Sobering, Strathpeffer realizes he has come to the wrong party and asserts his right to his title; but Gwennie (Angella Mawby) hides her father''s watch in Strathpeffer''s pocket as he is renewing his romance with Margery. A police inspector arrives hunting for the missing lord, establishing his authenticity and the fact that he is not, after all, the hired guest.'
'war','After the United States enters World War I in 1917, Wyoming native Jim Baker (Gary Cooper) and his fellow engineer Jersey (Regis Toomey) join the Army and are sent to France with the Engineer Corps. On the battlefield, Baker rescues Patricia Hunter (June Collyer), an American society girl who wanders onto the battlefield. Having worked for the Ambulance Corps, Hunter went AWOL to escape the boredom of her job. After rescuing her from enemy fire, Baker reprimands her for her actions. Later at a rest camp, Baker and Hunter see much of each other, fall in love, and are secretly married. Sometime later, Jim is sent back to the front. When Hunter reads about Baker''s death, she opens a family chateau to entertain servicemen and try to forget the man she loves. When Jim arrives at the chateau, having only been wounded, he sees her apparent gaity and misunderstands her feelings. When he encourages her to return with him to Wyoming, she refuses, and he decides to return to the front. On Armistice Day, Baker finds her waiting for him in the town where they were married.'
'adventure','Lady Jane Winston (Lane), heiress to a company called the West Africa Ivory and Rubber Co., travels to Africa because she believes that George Castle (Loder), the company''s manager in Africa, is stealing from the company. Rin Tin Tin sails on the same ship that she does. When the ships arrives near Africa, Rin Tin Tin jumps overboard and swims ashore. When Rin Tin Tin arrives on the beach he befriends Jim Clayton (Delaney), a former employee of Winston''s company. As she is above to get off the ship, Winston falls into the water, as some ferocious sharks appear. Clayton and Rin Tin Tin rescue her and they become friends. They decide to help Winston entrap Castle. When Clayton discovers a cache of ivory that Castle had hidden he is surprised by Castle''s men and imprisoned. Luckily, Clayton manages to give Rin Tin Tin a message who delivers it to Winston. When Winston attempts to help Clayton escape, Castle kidnaps her as well. In order to escape arrest by the authorities, Castle than inspires the natives to revolt against the whites. Rin Tin Tin manages to get to a British outpost just in time and the British soldiers quickly restore order, arrest Castle, and free Winston and Clayton.'
'drama','A wealthy woman runs over and kills a man in an automobile accident.'
'comedy','Leopold Trebel (Frank Fay) is a man who was in a train wreck five years earlier and was taken for dead by his wife, Juliet (Florence Eldridge) Leopold and Juliet have both remarried. Leopold, who remembers nothing that occurred before the train wreck, is the father of two sets of twins by his new wife, Sylvaine (Lilyan Tashman). Juliet has recently had a child with her new husband, Gustave Corton (James Gleason). Leopold is a very popular hairdresser and some of Juliet''s friends urge her to try him out. When Leopold shows up at her home, he shocks the servants and his ex-wife. A doctor manages to restore Leopold''s memory through hypnosis but in the process makes him forget what has happened in the last five years. When Leopold awakes from hypnosis, he thinks he has only been unconscious for a short while. He assumes he is still Juliet''s husband. The doctor warns everyone not to tell him the truth because the shock could kill him. Just at this crucial moment, Gustave Corton arrives home and is shocked to find Leopold in his bed. Later on, Sylvaine arrives only to find her husband in bed with Gustave Corton. Eventually, Leopold learns what has happened and asks the doctor to pretend to take back his memory so that Juliet, whom he deeply loves, can continue to live her new life.'
'musical comedy','George Irving, the president of Upton College, is in serious danger of losing his job. For the last twelve years Upton has lost the annual football match against rival Parsons College. The trustees of Upton insist that Irving must resign if Upton fails to win the upcoming football match. Joan Bennett, who is Irving''s daughter, overhears the threat of the trustees and tells her friend Joe E. Brown, who is a star football player. Together they come up with a scheme to get some of the best football players around to sign up to play for Upton. Bennett completely changes her appearance to vamp the various men into thinking she will be interested in them if they attend Upton in the following season and play for the football team. One by one they all fall for the scheme and sign up for Upton. Irving, however, refuses to admit James Hall into the college because of his poor performance in academics. Because of the coach''s insistence on needing him to win the game, Bennett helps Hall sign up under a fictitious name and credentials. All is well until Hall finds out about Bennett scheme and tells the rest of the team. Just before the game, the Upton team pretends to be drunk in order to teach Bennett a lesson. Just as the game is about to begin, the team decides to forgive Bennett and they win the game for Upton.'
'mystery','Gregory Sloane is a millionaire who lives in an isolated mansion on Hawk Island, off the coast of New England. He invites a disparate group of people to his home, who are soon cut off from the mainland when a fierce storm blows in. While confined, tensions erupt among the guests, leading to the murder of Mischa Kawelin. One of the other guests, Sally Wayne, an author who writes murder mysteries and Sloane''s fiancée, takes it upon herself to solve the crime. Over the course of the evening, she uncovers and strategically puts together all the clues, culminating in her getting the murderer to confess.'
'comedy drama','Min Divot (Marie Dressler) runs a dockside inn. She has been raising Nancy Smith (Dorothy Jordan) as her own since her prostitute mother, Bella (Majorie Rambeau), left her at the inn as an infant. Min frequently argues with fisherman Bill (Wallace Beery). Despite Bill''s near-constant drinking, Min and he care for each other. Bill and she are the only ones who know the identity of Nancy''s real, still living, mother. Min does her best to raise Nancy and keep her from learning about the real activities of the people who live and work on the docks. Despite not having much extra money or a home outside her inn, Min does her best to raise Nancy into a young lady. She does everything she can to make sure Nancy is never around when Bella arrives for a visit. Nancy loves Min as her own mother and frequently skips school to be with her. After repeatedly dealing with the truant officer, Min uses the money she had hidden in her room to send Nancy to a fancy boarding school. She hopes the school will teach Nancy better manners than what she had been picking up from Bill and the others on the docks. The schooling works and Nancy returns to Min with good manners, an education, and the news that she is now engaged to a very wealthy man. She wants Min to attend the wedding. Min is thrilled until she finds out that Bella has returned. Seeing how happy Nancy is to be getting married (and the wedding will be taking place in a few days), Min deliberately argues with Nancy and says terrible things she does not mean for Nancy to immediately leave. She is mad at herself for hurting Nancy, but is relieved that she is gone by the time Bella arrives. Min stalls Bella, hoping the wedding will take place and the couple can leave for their honeymoon before Bella can interfere. Bella arrives as the ceremony takes place. She confronts Min in an upstairs room in her inn. She has discovered her daughter''s identity, and that of her very wealthy new husband. She taunts Min with the information and pledges to torment Nancy and her new husband until they give her money and take her into their new home. Min thinks about the wedding and Nancy''s happiness and tries to prevent Bella from leaving. When Bella attacks Min with a hot curling iron and attempts to leave, Min takes a hidden gun and shoots her dead. Min drops the gun and flees the room. Bill, knowing what was going on, tries to help Min, but she leaves the inn. Min wants to see Nancy one last time. She sees the happy couple as they are about to board a boat to their honeymoon. Min watches, but decides not to let Nancy know she is there and stays hidden in the crowd. Two police officers quietly confront Min about the shooting at the inn. Min does not say much. She takes one final look at a smiling Nancy as she leaves with her husband. Min turns back and smiles as she quietly walks away with the officers. She is sad that it may be the last time she ever sees Nancy, but at the same time, she is happy that Nancy managed to escape a dead-end life by the docks.'
'drama','The film tells of a sea captain''s maniacal quest for revenge on a great white whale who has bitten off his leg. Ahab meets and falls in love with Faith, the daughter of the local minister, after disembarking in New Bedford. She falls in love with him and is heartbroken when he leaves on another voyage, but saying she will wait three years for him to return. During this next voyage, Ahab loses his leg to Moby Dick, a legendary white whale. When Ahab returns to New Bedford, he mistakenly believes that the woman he loves no longer wants to see him due to his disfigurement, an opinion encouraged by Ahab''s brother, who wants Faith for himself. Ahab vows revenge against the whale, and to kill it or be killed in the process, and returns to sea. Eventually, Ahab raises enough capital to buy and be captain of his own ship; but no one wants to crew with him because of his passion for destroying Moby Dick. Nonetheless, he directs his first mate to shanghai a crew—and unknowingly takes his brother on board. Although the crew mutinies, Moby Dick is sighted, and Ahab heads the harpoon boats out to spear him; driven with a bloodlust, he harpoons Moby Dick and kills him. The crew boils him down for whale oil, and they return to New Bedford, where Ahab and Faith are reunited.'
'drama','Joan Prescott (Joan Crawford) is a vacuous and flirtatious daughter of the wealthy Montana rancher, John Prescott (Lloyd Ingraham). On the train, Joan''s sister, Elizabeth (Dorothy Sebastian) tells her she''s in love with Jeff (Ricardo Cortez). Jeff is more smitten with Joan and kisses her. Joan then impulsively gets off at the next whistle stop, where she meets Larry (Johnny Mack Brown), a Texas cowboy. He is a rancher on John Prescott''s land, and does not know who Joan is. He expresses dismay at how spoiled Prescott''s daughters are. Joan conceals her identity, refusing to say her name. She tells him to think of something he loves and call her that, and he chooses "Montana." Joan and Larry fall for one another and are married. When they return to her father''s ranch, the couple are nervous that he will not approve of the pairing. However, to their surprise, John Prescott is delighted for the couple and believes Larry is the kind of person who can finally settle Joan. At their party, celebrating their nuptials, Joan sees Jeff, with whom Joan does a daring dance. As they finish dancing, Joan and Jeff share a lingering kiss. After Jeff and Larry come to blows, Joan is embarrassed that Larry resorted to violence. As Joan became familiar with Larry''s posse of cowboy friends, she wants Larry to be accustomed to her group of highbrow city friends who are in Montana with John Prescott. She wants to go back to New York where the couple can live comfortably, but Larry feels it is his duty as a husband to provide for his wife and having her father take care of him is not an option. Later at another party, Larry catches Jeff trying to make another move on Joan, and the married couple get into a fight. In a fit of rage, she tells Larry that marrying him was the greatest mistake of her life and tells him to leave her alone. As he is walking away, she realizes her mistake and begs to be forgiven, but he rebuffs her. Even John Prescott advises him to forgive her, but Larry sees too many differences between the two to make the marriage work. With the marriage over and Larry refusing to speak to Joan, the Prescotts—Joan in tow—decide to take the train back to New York. En route, the train is held up by masked cowboys, who take Joan as their only hostage. However, the whole robbery is a ruse and one of the masked cowboys is Larry who has come to take Joan back to their new life.'
'musical','Countess Helene Mara is engaged to be married to Prince Otto Von Liebenheim but leaves him at the altar. She flees on a train to Monte Carlo and checks into a hotel. When she arrives at the casino a count named Rudolph Falliere takes a liking to her and poses as a hairdresser whom she hires and falls in love with but could not marry if he is a commoner. Her fiance later arrives and takes her to an opera and she sees Rudolph there in one of the expensive seats indicating he is too wealthy to be a hairdresser. When he reveals to her that he is a count, she realises she can marry him.'
'drama','The film is set in the late 1920s. It opens in Morocco, with the French Foreign Legion returning from a campaign. Among them is Légionnaire Private Tom Brown (Gary Cooper). Meanwhile, on a ship bound for Morocco is the disillusioned nightclub singer Amy Jolly (Marlene Dietrich). Wealthy La Bessière (Adolphe Menjou) attempts to make her acquaintance, offering to assist her on her first trip to Morocco. When she politely refuses any help, he gives her his calling card, which she later tears up and tosses away. They meet again at the nightclub where she is a new headliner. Also in the audience is Private Tom Brown (Gary Cooper). Amy, who comes out in a tophat and tails, is first greeted by boos, which she coolly ignores. Tom begins to clap, interrupting their jeers, and others follow suit. After the noise subsides she sings her number ("Quand l''amour Meurt" or "When Love Dies") and is met with ecstatic applause. Seeing a woman in the audience with a flower in her hair, she asks if she may keep it, to which the woman responds "of course". She playfully kisses the woman on the mouth, and throws the flower to Private Tom Brown. Her second performance ("What am I bid for my Apple?"), this time in feminine dress, is also a hit. After the number she sells apples to the audience, including La Bessière and Tom Brown. When Amy gives the latter his "change", she slips him her key. That night, Tom sets out to take Amy up on her offer. On the street he encounters Adjudant Caesar''s wife (Eve Southern). It is clear that she has a past clandestine relationship with him, which she desires intensely to maintain, but Toms rejects her. Entering Amy''s house, they become acquainted. Her house is plastered with photos from her past, which she, like a Foreign Legion soldier, reveals nothing of. He asks Amy if the man in the photographs is her husband, and she answers that she has never found someone good enough, a sentiment shared by Tom. She has become embittered with life and men after repeated betrayals, and asks if he can restore her faith in men. He answers that he is the wrong man for that, and that no one should have faith in him. As they talk, she finds herself coming to like him. Unwilling to risk heartbreak once again, she asks him to leave before anything serious happens. As he leaves, he encounters Caesar''s wife again. Her husband, Tom''s commanding officer, watches undetected from the shadows. Meanwhile, Amy changes her mind and seeks Tom out. With Amy in arm, Tom leaves Madame Caesar, who then hires two street ruffians to attack the couple. Tom manages to seriously wound both, while he and Amy escape unscathed. The next day, Tom is brought before Adjutant Caesar (who had been watching them clandestinely) on the charge of injuring two allegedly harmless natives. Amy clears him, but Caesar makes him aware that he knows about Tom''s involvement with his wife. La Bessière, whose affections for Amy continue unabated, knows her concern for Tom and offers to use his weight with Caesar to lighten his punishment. Instead of a court martial, Tom is released from detention and ordered to leave for Amalfi Pass with a detachment commanded by Caesar. He suspects that Caesar intends to rid himself of his romantic rival, and fears for his life were he to go. Amy is saddened by the news that he is leaving. Meanwhile, Tom, war-weary and enamored with Amy, plans to desert to be with her. That night at the nightclub, La Bessière enters Amy''s dressing room. He gifts her with a lavish bracelet, which she attempts to refuse, before setting it on her table. At the same time Tom, intending to tell her of his plans, arrives at the door of her dressing room. Tom overhears La Bessière offer to marry Amy, an offer she politely turns down. La Bessière asks her if it is because she is in love, to which she responds that she doesn''t think she is. Asking her if she would make the same choice if not for "a certain private in the Foreign Legion", she answers that she does not know. After hearing this Tom knocks on the door, and La Bessière kindly lets them alone so Tom can say goodbye to her. As they embrace, Amy tells him not to go, and he responds that that''s what he intended to do. He will desert and board a train to Europe, but if she would join him. She agrees to this. A buzzer signals it is time for her to perform, and she asks him to wait for her to return. After she departs, he notices the lavish bracelet on her dressing room table. Though he has fallen in love with her himself, Tom decides that she would be better off with a rich man than with a poor Legionnaire. He writes on her mirror, "I changed my mind. Good luck!". The next day Amy arrives with La Bessière to see the company''s departure, so that she can bid Tom farewell. Adding further injury, he hides the depth of his feelings for her by having several women in his company, who cling to him so doggedly that Amy must maneuver herself between them to shake his hand. She asks La Bessière about the women trailing after the company, who explains that they follow the men. She wonders how they keep pace with them, and he answers "Sometimes they catch up with them, and sometimes they don''t. And very often when they do, they find their men dead." Amy remarks that the women must be mad to do such a thing, to which La Bessière responds "I don''t know. You see, they love their men." On the march to Amalfi Pass, Tom''s company detachment runs into a machine gun nest. Caesar orders Tom to deal with it, and Tom suspects it is a suicide mission. To his surprise, Caesar decides to accompany him. Caesar is killed by the enemy. Though in a relationship with La Bessière, Amy pines for Tom. She is devastated by his treatment of her, and begins drinking heavily and acting erratically at work. La Bessière enters her dressing room to find her singing gayly. He asks if she is in high spirits because she has heard news of Tom. She leads him to the mirror to show him the note Tom left, which she had hidden behind a flower pot. Still concealing her grief, she asks him to pour her a drink, before throwing its contents on the mirror and breaking the glass. La Bessière consoles her, and Amy eventually accepts his proposal. Later, at their engagement party, La Bessière and Amy learn that what''s left of Tom''s detachment has returned. Frantic, Amy rushes outside, but learns that Tom was wounded and left behind to recuperate in a hospital. She informs La Bessière that she must go to Tom that very night; and wanting only her happiness, he drives her there. She finds that Tom has not been injured at all, but has instead been faking an injury to avoid combat. Instead of the hospital ward, he has been residing in a canteen. Accompanying him is a native woman, who attempts to console him, knowing he is brokenhearted over leaving his love. He has carved "AMY JOLLY" inside a heart, covered by a heap of cigarette butts from his chain smoking. When Amy arrives, Tom asks her if she is married, to which she answers in the negative. He then asks if she plans to marry La Bessière, to which she replies with a yes. He encourages her to marry him, not revealing his feelings for her. As he prepares to join his new unit, she finds his knife on the table, which he has forgotten. When he returns to collect it, she remarks that he has also forgotten to say goodbye. He asks her to see the unit off as they leave at dawn. Alone and distraught, Amy sifts through the pile of playing cards and cigarettes, and finds the heart with her name in it. The next morning she attends as his unit disembarks. Amy is torn in leaving him with the knowledge of his love for her, but when she sees a handful of native women stubbornly following the Legionnaires they love, she joins them.'
'drama','The film is focused on the life of widowed mother Mary Williams (Dorothy Peterson) and her struggles to raise her four children. Daniel (Edward Woods), her eldest, torments her and his siblings throughout his childhood and grows up to be a criminal. Younger son Arthur (David Manners) grows up to be a successful architect. Daughter Jennie (Evalyn Knapp) loves domestic work and homelife and is courted by Karl Muller (Reinhold Pasch), a wealthy older gentleman. The other daughter, Beattie (Helen Chandler), grows up to be an idealistic dreamer. One day Daniel doublecrosses some gangsters, who beat him up, and he disappears for three years, returning with a moll whom he introduces as his wife. Meanwhile, Jennie has married Muller. Detectives trail Daniel to his mother''s house as a suspect in a holdup. He later reappears at the house with a blackmail scheme and ends up shooting and murdering his own sister Beattie. He is convicted of cold-blooded murder and sent to the electric chair. The film ends with Mary finding consolation in her two remaining children.'
'mystery','Leonard Staunton (Jack Mulhall), a young wealthy New York club-man is engaged to Jeanne Baldwin (Lila Lee), daughter of a U.S. Senator (Alec B. Francis). Mulhall is preparing to spend a weekend at the Senator''s estate. He becomes involved in the affairs of a gang of blackmailers through his efforts to help a fellow club member. When Alan Fitzhugh (Claud Allister), a fellow club-member, arrives with a note, imprinted with a purple hieroglyph, in which he, Fitzhugh, is threatened with a horrible death. Since Fitzhugh is nervous and terrified, Leonard agrees to stay with him at his apartment that night. A little after midnight, Fitzhugh finally recovers his nerve and Leonard takes a cab home. The next day a body, terribly mutilated beyond recognition is found. Following the funeral, Dr. Mansfield (Tully Marshall), accidentally smokes a poisoned cigarette. Leonard, Jeanne, and Lt. Condon (Noah Beery), who claims to be in the secret service, take Dr. Mansfield to his home for an antidote. While searching for the antidote, Mansfield''s body disappears. While they search for his body, they find footprints that lead to a slipper, inside of which they find another note with a purple hieroglyph. Numerous other blackmail threats follow, demanding money from Leonard. While at a Chinese garden party, Jeanne is kidnapped and a ransom is demanded from Leonard for her return. While on his way to pay the ransom, Leonard is captured by the blackmailers in a speedboat, but a United States submarine rescues both Leonard and Jeanne. The criminals turn out to be none other than Alan, Dr. Mansfield, and Lt. Condon, who concocted the scheme to get money from Leonard.'
'western','Rancher Tug Wilson (Alfred Hewston) discovers his mate''s diabolical scheme, only to be killed instantly. The criminal rancher, Buck Rankin (Al Ferguson), is guilty of killing the Bledsoes'' cattle. Buck blames Tug''s death on Jim (Bob Steele), the son of Tom Bledsoe (Lafe McKee). Seeking revenge, Tug''s daughter Ruth (Louise Lorraine) joins a movement led by Buck to kill Jim. Jim narrowly escapes his first capture attempt but knows he will not make it far. Luckily for him, a sheep herder has witnessed Buck killing Tug and the cattle. With the truth out, Sheriff Hank Bosley (Hank Bell), who was initially on Buck''s side, promptly arrests the guilty rancher.'
'musical','Jim Smith (Lucien Littlefield), a millionaire due to his Bible publishing business, is married to the overly frugal Sue (Louise Fazenda). They desire to teach their ward Nanette (Bernice Claire) to be a respectable young lady; she, in turn, has an untapped wild side. Nanette wants to have some fun in Atlantic City, while she is being pursued by Tom Trainor (Alexander Gray). With so much unspent income at his disposal, Jim decides to become the benefactor for three beautiful women, but soon realizes his good intentions are bound to get him in trouble. He enlists his lawyer friend Bill (Bert Roach) to help him discreetly ease the girls out of his life. Sue and Billy''s wife, Lucille (Lilyan Tashman), learn about the women and assume their husbands are having affairs with them. Eventually, Bill and Jim explain the situation and are forgiven by their wives. Likewise, Nanette and Tom sort out their difficulties and decide to get married.'
'romantic drama','Lady Patricia (Billie Dove), a London socialite engaged to another aristocrat, shocks her father and social class by marrying the poor Italian violinist Paul Gherardi (Basil Rathbone). Countess Olga Balakireff (Kay Francis), a vamp who likes to fool around with men below her station, takes an interest in Gherardi, as well. Unbeknownst to Patricia, Balakireff uses her influence to make Paul famous and, in return, ensnares him in an affair. The double strain of fame and deceit causes Paul to suffer a collapse at Balakireff''s house. Dr. Pomeroy (Kenneth Thompson) is sent for, who happens to be one of Patricia''s former lovers. He has Paul taken home, where Patricia quickly uncovers the facts. The couple separate. While Dr. Pomeroy ardently courts Patricia, Paul cohabits with Balakireff in the South of France, until she has had her fun and leaves him. Paul then suffers a paralytic attack. Patricia and Dr. Pomeroy take Paul to a surgeon for an operation, and Patricia stays at her husband''s side to nurse him back to health. After a month, Paul still seems not to have made any progress and accuses Patricia of wanting to leave him for Thompson. The moment after Thompson and Patricia have said goodbye forever because she won''t leave a paralyzed husband, Paul reveals to his wife that he has, in fact, fully recovered, and the two are reconciled.'
'prison drama','Bertie "Duke" Gray (Conrad Nagel) is a counterfeiter who has been sentenced to prison for ten years. Seeing that there is no chance to escape, he accepts his fate and settles down into prison life to make the best of it. Gray is friends with Bud Leonard (played by Raymond Hackett), a young man who can not stand prison for he is in love with Mary Dane (played by Bernice Claire) and misses her terribly. To make matters worse, while Hackett is in prison, the man who framed him, played by Lou Rinaldo (played by Maurice Black), is making a play for Mary. When she tempts Bud to escape he is ready to run the risk although it may mean his death. The two plan to meet each other when Hackett discloses to her that he is being sent to work on the road gang. Mary manages to get work at a farmhouse where the convicts usually eat, hoping to thereby see Bud. Rinaldo traces her to the house and schemes to get Hackett out of the way so he can have her instead. Rinaldo convinces Hackett and yet another prisoner ("King Callahan", played by Ralph Ince) whom Rinaldo had framed that now is the time to escape in the hope that he can have them caught in the attempt. Mary prevents Hackett''s escape but Callahan falls for the trick. Callahan later shoots Rinaldo and is himself killed. To save Bud, who is supposed to be released soon, Gray informs against Rinaldo, although the evidence he provides will lead to an extra prison term for him. Gray is happy to make the sacrifice, knowing that Mary will be with the man she truly loves.'
'romance','Publisher Larry Fellowes (Lewis Stone) believes that his stenographer/secretary (played by Dale Fuller) spends more time with him and makes more decisions than a wife would for her husband. He persuades author Kate Halsey (Blanche Friderici) to write a novel based on this premise. When Larry''s secretary learns of his plans to marry Linda (Natalie Moorhead), the secretary has a nervous breakdown because she is in love with him herself. A new attractive, intelligent and efficient secretary, Anne Murdock (Dorothy Mackaill), is hired while Larry is on his honeymoon. Larry, a workaholic, begins to neglect his wife working with his secretary, and they both fall in love. Meanwhile, his wife is seeing another man (played by Brooks Benedict), with whom she falls in love. Eventually, Larry kisses Anne while they are working together at his apartment, while Linda makes love with her young gigolo, who gives her the key to his apartment and says goodnight. Linda returns to her husband (after giving them enough time to compose themselves) and tells Larry that they should go to bed as it is very late. Anne watches as Larry goes to the bedroom with his wife and closes the door behind him. She is heartbroken and decides she will give him her resignation in the morning.[clarification needed][why?] Linda decides to divorce Larry. Anne agrees to marry her long-time admirer Ted O''Hara after giving her resignation. On the final day of work, Anne''s sister Katherine Murdock (Joan Blondell) phones the confused Larry and explains everything, bringing about a happy ending.'
'comedy','An American newspaper reporter named Charlie Carroll (Charles King) is sent to Venice to interview a Romanian general, who is played by Noah Beery. While in Venice Charlie falls for a young heiress named Nanette Dodge (Irene Delroy). When Charlie is unable to get an interview with the Romanian general, a local siren named Kunegundi (Vivien Oakland), who is the general''s favorite helps him. Meanwhile, Nanette learns that her sister is being blackmailed by Prince Kasloff of Russia (Lowell Sherman), to whom she wrote some incriminating letters. Nanette attempts to vamp the Prince in order to obtain the love letters. The Prince, however, tricks her and demands that Nanette marry him if she wants to save her sister. After being repeatedly rebuked by Nanette, the prince hires the Romanian general (Noah Beery) to kidnap her and force her into marriage. Charlie, thinking she has eloped, consoles himself with Kunegundi (Vivien Oakland) and almost marries her until he realizes the truth about Nanette and that she has been kidnapped by the Prince. Charlie sets out to rescue her and when the Prince shows up disguised as the general he shoots Prince Kasloff. Charlie and Nanette are happily reunited. Ole Olsen and Chic Johnson provide comic relief that is completely unrelated to the main story. They play the part of two American sailors stationed in Naples who attempt to find a wooden-legged thief who has robbed the navy storehouse in Venice. Louisa, a local siren (played by Lotti Loder) leads them on and embroils them in trouble.'
'western','An outlaw on the run is hidden by the foreman of a ranch, the foreman being one of the biggest outlaws in the territory.'
'drama','Putting a son through college, Julianne, owner of a Fifth Avenue dress shop in New York City, is persuaded to supplement her income by providing loans to struggling showgirls. The plan backfires when her son Harvey falls for her business partner''s lover Jeanne Burke, who blackmails Julianne.'
'drama','Susie (Helen Ware), who runs a house for gangsters, is raising Dick Rollins, the son (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.) of a dead convict. Susie has raised Dick well, making sure that he was not influenced by her gangster friends. She even gets him a job as press agent. Dick falls in love with Mary, a chorus girl, (Billie Dove). When he announces his engagement, Susie becomes infuriated, because she believes that a girl of her type will urge him on to a life of crime. Her premonitions come to fruition. Hayes (John Loder), who is producing Mary''s show, gives her an engagement party. Dick is called to work, however, and Mary attends the party alone. Hayes attempts to rape her, and she shoots him in self-defense. Despite Mary''s protests, Dick confesses to the murder and is convicted for manslaughter. While he is in prison, he writes a play for Mary, who tries to find a producer for the play but is turned down everywhere. Knowing how much the play means to Dick, she makes a deal with David Drake (Claude Fleming), who is willing to produce the play only if she submits to his sexual advances. The play is a success and makes Mary a star, which makes Dick happy when he hears the news. Houlihan (James Crane), who had made advances to Mary previously but had been rejected, goes to Susie and tells her everything concerning Mary''s sordid affair. At first, when Susie confronts her, Mary denies everything., but she eventually confesses and Susie promises to keep the whole affair a secret. When Dick is finally released, the lovers are happily reunited.'
'drama, war','During the American Civil War, Capt. James Braydon (Gary Cooper) visits his sweetheart and finds her with another man. Angered by the betrayal, he volunteers to become a spy for the Union. His first assignment involves carrying false military dispatches behind enemy lines and allow them to be discovered by Confederate Army officers in order to mislead them. Braydon sets off on his dangerous mission. Pretending to be a Confederate sympathizer in possession of vital Union plans, Braydon arrives at the plantation of a beautiful southern belle, Barbara Calhoun (Mary Brian), who has organized a ball for Confederate officers. At the ball, Braydon openly flirts with his gracious host in order to make one of the Confederate officers, Capt. Robert Darrington (Phillips Holmes), jealous. Darrington is in love with Barbara, and Braydon believes that if he can make him jealous, he will be arrested and his fraudulent dispatches will be discovered. Braydon''s plan is disrupted, however, by Barbara who comes to his defense, and soon falls in love with him. In the coming days, Barbara continues to save Braydon from being arrested, even after she discovers that he is a Union spy. Each time he attempts to get arrested, she intervenes and arranges for his release. Finally, Braydon leaps from a window and is captured by the Confederates, who discover the fraudulent dispatches and soon act on them. Later, after they discover that the dispatches were a deception, they order Braydon executed by firing squad. Just before the sentence can be carried out, the Union Army arrives, and in the subsequent battle, Braydon is saved, although seriously wounded. Barbara is there to comfort him. Sometime later, after General Lee surrenders at Appomattox Court House to end the war, Barbara and Braydon are married in a military wedding.'
'drama','The story takes place in a small town in Georgia. Edith (Dove) is a girl who has loved Jim Carter (Withers) since childhood. One day they get into a quarrel and an older and very wealthy man, Norton Larrison (Thomson), seizes the opportunity to court Edith. Larrison succeeds in making Edith forget Jim temporarily. Edith marries Larrison and then go to Europe on their honeymoon. Soon after they return to Georgia, Edith discovers that she is still in love with Jim. She is determined, however, to be a faithful wife and vows to hide her love for Jim. One day Larrison overhears a conversation to the effect that Jim can never forget his love for Edith. Harrison becomes increasingly suspicious of his wife. It finally reaches the point where he manages to kill all the respect and love that Edith held for him as her husband. The picture comes to a climax as both Norton and Jim each vows to kill the other.'
'drama','Fellow department store shopgirls and roommates Gerry March (Crawford), Connie Blair (Anita Page) and Franky Daniels (Dorothy Sebastian) take different paths in New York City, but all seek to marry wealthy men. Connie pursues an affair with David Jardine (Raymond Hackett), son of the department store owner. Meanwhile, Franky meets the slick-talking Marty Sanderson (John Miljan) when he comes into the store to buy $500 worth of towels. However, when Sanderson comes to pick Franky up, he hits on Gerry instead. At the same time, Gerry has been constantly courted by the dashing Tony Jardine (Robert Montgomery), elder son of the store owner. He is used to getting what he wants, but when he invites her to visit the gardens on his estate alone. Gerry, who believes that virtue will be her only reward, rebuffs Tony and intimates that he is childish. Franky falls in love with Sanderson, who spoils her with diamonds and silk. Gerry is suspicious, especially when she finds them both drunk and has to lead Franky out. However, unbeknownst to them, Sanderson is the leader of a criminal gang that steals from department stores like the one the women work at. The police come to apprehend Franky, believing she is a part of the gang, but she knows nothing of it. Meanwhile, Connie is very happy with David and intends to marry him. However, she reads in the newspaper that David intends to marry the high-society Evelyn Woodforth (Martha Sleeper). She listens to the reception being broadcast on the radio and takes poison in an attempt kill herself. Gerry finds her and goes to Tony in order to force David to leave his reception to visit Connie. In a contentious conversation, Tony forces David to leave and visit Connie, and this selfless act attracts Gerry and convinces her that Tony is a good guy after all. However, despite David''s visit, Connie dies.'
'drama','Robinson plays the ruthless boss of a criminal gang, willing to do anything to prevent a rival gangster from pulling off a bank robbery on ''his'' patch.'
'drama','Henry and Ann, a pair of young lovers, are planning to commit suicide and are worried about what will happen to their dog when they are gone. The scene then changes to a disparate group of passengers who find themselves aboard a darkened, fog-enshrouded crewless boat, sailing to an unknown destination. Their stories are revealed one by one. Tom Prior, a prodigal son, discovers that he''s traveling with his ex-boss, Mr. Lingley, a captain of industry; his mother, Mrs. Midget, whose identity is unknown to him, is curious about how her son is doing; Mrs. Cliveden-Banks, an affected socialite, chats with Scrubby the steward; Rev. William Duke, a clergyman, is keen about his missionary work in the London slums; and the young couple, Henry and Ann, who are facing an impossible love affair and have decided that they cannot live without each other. They now wonder if they will be together forever. In time, the passengers slowly realize what is going on—they are all dead. They will be judged during the course of the voyage, and go either to Heaven, or to Hell. Arriving at their destination, they await judgment by Thompson, the "examiner." Henry and Ann, who made an unsuccessful suicide attempt, now hover in a sort of limbo between life and death, have not quite crossed over. Scrubby, the ship''s steward, has already been condemned to sail the ship for eternity, having previously committed suicide himself. Henry is eventually saved from asphyxiation by gas poisoning when his dog breaks a window pane. He calls to Ann, she revives, and together they are rescued by neighbors and taken away in an ambulance.'
'comedy','Jim Murdock''s marriage is in trouble after he neglects his wife, particularly her attraction to golf. With tips from Irish caddy Tommy Milligan on how to play the game on the course and at home, Jim challenges his estranged wife to a match and demonstrates that he''s a changed man.'
'drama','Gene Fenmore is a suave gentleman, safely ensconced in the upper crust of society. Unbeknownst to his society acquaintances, he is also the leader of the largest mob in the city. But it is a mob with scruples, thanks to Fenmore, and they only prey on dishonest businessmen, and never shoot or kill anyone. However, there is a power struggle developing between Fenmore and his number two man, Rocky, who disagrees with the moral constraints put on the gang by Fenmore. The tension between the two men is exacerbated by the fact Rocky has taken Fenmore''s girlfriend, Dot away from him. As he starts to exert his influence on the other gang members, Rocky holds up a young engaged couple, Annabelle and Tommy, of their last few dollars for the fun of it. When Fenmore hears of the robbery, he gives them back their money and takes them under his wing, offering the both of them jobs on the legitimate side of his business. When Rocky sees that Fenmore has taken a liking to the couple, he develops a plan to use them in order to take over Fenmore''s gang. Even though Fenmore has given explicit orders not to involve the couple in the illicit activities of the gang, Rocky takes them along when he goes to hold up a jewelry store. When the robbery goes wrong, Rocky ends up shooting and killing the owner of the store, after which he frames Tommy and Annabelle for the crime. In order to set things right, Fenmore orchestrates a confrontation with the police, wherein he confesses to the jewelry store robbery, and in the ensuing melee, Rocky is killed. As he is led off in handcuffs, Fenmore turns to the police officer and says, "If it wasn''t for men like me, they wouldn''t need men like you."'
'drama','Alice White plays the part of a working class girl who dreams about living a life of luxury. Her father, Richard Carlyle, runs a cigar store while White works as a stenographer. William Bakewell, a soda jerker, is madly in love with White and has even asked her father for his consent to their marriage. Although Carlyle likes Bakewell and would like to see her daughter marry him, White refuses to consider marrying him on the wage he currently earns. One day, White convinces Bakewell to take her to a fancy exclusive nightclub. Once they arrive and are seated, Bakewell is shocked at the prices and suggests that they go elsewhere. This leads to an argument with White. As the couple is about to leave, an announcement is made for a leg contest and White decides to enter. She wins first place and is awarded her prize by Chester Morris, a gangster. Dazzled by his fancy clothes and car, White accepts his attentions and give Bakewell the air. Eventually Morris asks White to go away with him. White naively thinks that he intends to marry her. Before they make their trip, Morris, who is low on cash, robs a cigar store and in the process shoots the man behind the counter. Without knowing it, he has shot White''s father. As White and Morris are about to leave on their trip, they stop at her father''s cigar store to say goodbye. As they approach they see police stationed around and Morris realizes what he has done. He convinces White to stay in the car while he checks out what happened. He talks a bit to the police and then tells White that her father is ok and that he now at the police station to help the police identify a thief. In reality, however White''s father is at the hospital suffering from a gunshot wound that Morris gave him. Morris convinces White to continue on the trip with him and they drive to the train station. Bakewell, who suspects that Morris was behind the robbery, asks the police to help him entrap Morris. They manage to get Morris to unwittingly to confess to the crime before he has a chance to board the train. Morris is arrested and White''s father recovers. White, chastened by the experience, agrees to marry Bakewell.'
'mystery','Gentleman jewel thief A.J. Raffles (Ronald Colman) decides to give up his criminal ways as the notorious "Amateur Cracksman" after falling in love with Lady Gwen (Kay Francis). However, when his friend Bunny Manders (Bramwell Fletcher) tries to commit suicide because of a gambling debt he cannot repay, Raffles decides to take on one more job for Bunny''s sake. He joins Bunny and Gwen as guests of Lord and Lady Melrose, with an eye toward acquiring the Melrose necklace, once the property of Empress Joséphine. Complications arise when a gang of thieves also decides to try for the necklace at the same time. Inspector Mackenzie of Scotland Yard (David Torrence) gets wind of their plot and shows up at the Melrose estate with his men. Burglar Crawshaw breaks into the house and succeeds in stealing the jewelry, only to have Raffles take it away from him. Crawshaw is caught by the police, but learns his robber''s identity. Meanwhile, both Gwen and Mackenzie suspect that Raffles is the famous jewel thief. When the necklace is not found, Mackenzie insists that all the guests remain inside, then quickly changes his mind. Gwen overhears Mackenzie tell one of his men that he intends to let Crawshaw escape, expecting the crook to go after Raffles and thereby incriminate him. She follows Raffles back to London to warn him. Crawshaw does as Mackenzie anticipated. However, Raffles convinces Crawshaw that it is too dangerous to pursue his original goal with all the policemen around and helps him escape. Then, Raffles publicly confesses to being the Amateur Cracksman. When Lord Melrose shows up, Raffles reminds him of the reward he offered for the necklace''s return (conveniently the same amount that Bunny owes) and produces the jewelry. Then, he outwits Mackenzie and escapes, after arranging with Gwen to meet her in Paris.'
'musical','Wall Street wizard, Larry Day, new to the ways of love, is coached by his valet. He follows Vivian Benton on an ocean liner, where cocktails, laced with a "love potion", work their magic. He then loses his fortune in the market crash and feels he has also lost his girl.'
'musical','In this drama, a 50-year-old married man (played by John Halliday) goes with his wife (Belle Bennett) and son (Junior Durkin) to a nightclub in a fancy hotel in Detroit. He meets a gold-digger (Dorothy Burgess) there, singing the theme song of the picture, and eventually ends up going out with her on a subsequent occasion and falls in love with her. His wife finally finds out and this leads to her leaving him and getting a divorce in Paris. He is married to the gold-digger but finds life with her and her "jazz friends" to be too much for him. He begins to long for his old wife when he finds her in a nightclub with another man (Richard Tucker, not the famous tenor) and becomes jealous.'
'drama','In remote northern Canada, Sergeant Conniston (Bickford) seeks to capture escaped convicted murderer Keith (also played by Bickford). He is accompanied by O''Toole (J. Farrell MacDonald), a guide who is constantly drunk. When he finally catches his quarry, he is shocked to find that they look exactly alike. On their way back to the RCMP post, however, their sled overturns. Keith takes Conniston''s gun and sled and leaves the policeman and his guide to die in the snow. Keith starts to feel guilty about what he has done. He turns back and takes the men to an emergency cabin. In spite of this, Conniston dies of a frozen lung. After talking to Keith for a while, O''Toole becomes convinced of his innocence. He coaches Keith so that he can pass himself off as the sergeant. O''Toole is not well enough to travel, so Keith goes to the RCMP post alone. Once he arrives, Keith tells McDowell (David Torrence), the post commanding officer, that it was Keith who died. McDowell then informs him that Keith was innocent; the real murderer confessed. Worried that he will be accused of Conniston''s murder if his true identity is discovered, Keith plans to escape across the border. There are complications. Miriam (Evalyn Knapp), McDowell''s daughter, had been Conniston''s girl, but she decided to break up with him. Keith is very much attracted to her, and proves to be much more romantic than Conniston. Miriam finds herself falling in love with him. Mickey (Frank Coghlan, Jr.), O''Toole''s young son, had adopted Conniston as a substitute father. He eventually realizes that Keith is not the sergeant, but Keith manages to persuade him to keep his secret. Keith goes to see McDowell to ask for his daughter''s hand in marriage, only to discover that a jealous rival had made inquiries. Conniston, it turns out, was married. McDowell orders him to leave the base in disgrace. Before he goes, he confesses the truth to Miriam. Then, refusing to sneak away, Keith braves a beating from a gauntlet of angry Mounties and boards a ship, accompanied by Mickey. At the last minute, Miriam boards as well.'
'drama','Loretta Young plays the part of an orphan who has been raised by two thieves (Raymond Hatton and George Barraud) and does not know that she has a twin sister who is now a wealthy socialite (Loretta Young as Margaret Waring). One day, while she is dining at a Chinese restaurant with her two guardians, they notice the wealthy socialite and are taken aback at how closely she resembles Young. Hatton and Barraud convince Young that she should impersonate the socialite so that they can enter her house and steal the contents of her safe. Young enters the house and meet Jack Mulhall who senses something different about Waring and immediately falls in love with Young. When night falls, Young lets Hatton and Barraud into the house and they attempt to open the safe. Waring happens to enter the house and is shocked to find a woman that looks like her. She is wounded by Barraud and Young tricks the police into thinking that Waring is an imposter and thief. Even though Mulhall knows the truth, he keeps quiet because he is in love with Young. Eventually Young discovers that Waring is her twin sister when they discover that they have matching lockets. The charges against Waring are dropped and Young accepts Mulhall''s proposal of marriage.'
'operetta','The story takes place in Russia in the year 1910. Yegor (Lawrence Tibbett), a dashing (as well as singing) bandit leader meets Princess Vera (Catherine Dale Owen) at a mountain inn. They fall in love, but the relationship is shattered when Yegor kills Vera''s brother, Prince Serge, for raping his sister, Nadja, and driving her to suicide. Yegor kidnaps Vera, forcing her to live a life of lowly servitude among the bandits. Vera manages to outwit Yegor, who is captured by soldiers and flogged. Vera begs Yegor''s forgiveness. Although still in love with each other, they realize they cannot be together, at least for the time being.'
'romance','On New Year''s Eve, Harry (Elliott Nugent) tells his grandfather (Gavin Gordon), a bishop, that he intends to marry an actress, even though that is frowned upon by his social class. However, his grandfather recounts via flashback a cautionary tale of a great love affair with a "fallen women" during his own youth. When he was 28 years old, Tom Armstrong, the son of an aristocratic family and the rector of St. Giles, meets the famous Italian opera star Rita Cavallini (Greta Garbo) at an evening party given by Cornelius Van Tuyl (Lewis Stone). Tom falls in love with Rita even though there are rumors that she is Van Tuyl''s mistress. Tom''s family disapproves of Rita but he continues to pursue her until he discovers that she had been lying to him about the true nature of her relationship with Van Tuyl. Though he forgives and loves her, their different lives and different social class make an engagement untenable. Ultimately, the old bishop later married Harry''s grandmother and counsels Harry to marry the woman he loves regardless of the consequences.'
'western','Working as lumberjacks in the Northwest, Billy West (George O''Brien) and his pal Laramie (Eddie Borden) spy two men stealing furs from a trap, but they arrive too late to save the trap owner from being shot. Billy suspects Loup LaTour (Antonio Moreno) and his partner Chick Carson (Harry Cording). While Marna Reynolds (Helen Chandler) dreams of dances and pick chiffon dresses, her father (David Hartford) is being forced to purchase stolen furs from LaTour and Carson, and LaTour is throwing a few lecherous glances toward Marna. Billy, in a card game, catches LaTour cheating and also suggests he suspects him of theft and murder before further violence is stopped by the sheriff. Billy and Laramie are ambushed and Billy is shot in the shoulder, but kills Carson. Laramie takes Billy to the Reynolds trading post, where Marna ministers to his wound. LaTour convinces the sheriff that Billy murdered Carson and the sheriff is led on a dogsled chase by Laramie. LaTour returns to the post with intentions of changing his lecherous glances into lecherous action, and the weakened Billy struggles with LaTour as Marna races toward the log-jammed river.'
'adventure','The film begins with a parked car with drawn curtains inside of which three gangsters (played by Walter Miller, Richard Alexander and Skeets Noyes) and silently waiting for their prey. When a large closed vehicle approaches the car with gangsters it crashes and the gangsters quickly rush to the vehicle, kill the chauffeur and two guards and steal a satchel with 100,000 dollars. The gangsters then look for a hideout and find a fishing hut. This hut is the home of Capt. Thomas (Breese), who can no longer walk and is confined to a wheelchair, and his young daughter Mary (Ralston). Mary is in love with Cal Morton (Chandler), who is a policeman that rides a motorcycle. Morton is Rin Tin Tin''s owner. Masquerading as government agents, the gangsters break into the hut and prevent Capt. Thomas and Mary from leaving. When Rin Tin Tin delivers the daily newspaper, as usual, Mary manages to place a note on Rin Tin Tin for Cal Morton. When Cal arrives with Rin Tin Tin, he and his dog are wounded by one of the gangsters. The gangsters also capture two mail agents (William Irving and George Rigon). The gangsters then attempt to make a getaway by using a boat. In spite of being injured, Rin Tin Tin manages to prevent the escape of the gangsters and delivers them to Cal who handcuffs them with Bill''s help.'
'drama','Mary Gray (Mary Astor) and Dick Mercer (David Newell) elope, since Mary''s wealthy parents would never approve of the marriage. In Atlantic City, they arrive at the humble efficiency hotel room Mary has taken. Dick is not impressed, and would prefer they stay in a fancier hotel. An argument ensues over whether Dick should remain an idle playboy or go to work. Mary decides to call it off, but Dick refuses to let her, locking her in the room while he goes for a minister. Meanwhile, Red Dugan (Maurice Black) robs a jewelry store and slips into Mary''s room (formerly his). Dugan hides a stolen necklace in Mary''s handbag, before he and a policeman fatally shoot each other. When Clara Muldoon (Natalie Moorhead), the chambermaid, comes to change the linen, Mary asks her for a hiding place, giving her $300. Clara is about to switch jobs, but gives Mary her new job information instead. After Mary leaves, Clara comes upon Dugan, who manages to tell her that he "put it in her bag" before dying. Police Sergeant Daly (Paul Hurst) questions Clara, then accuses Dick of being Dugan''s associate when he returns. Daly takes the pair in for further grilling. As "Sally Fairchild", Mary shows up at the home of wealthy bachelor George Blaine (Lloyd Hughes) to take the job. However, it is clear to George and his valet Williams that there is something not quite right about her. Her manners are too polished for a servant and she is very pretty. (George also notices that the monogram on her purse is MG.) George decides not to hire her, but when a policeman comes and asks for directions, she faints after the man leaves. Under the circumstances, George cannot send her away in that condition, so he decides to hire her after all. Afterward, George examines Mary''s purse and finds a pearl necklace. Meanwhile, Clara, who is part of the gang, tells the thieves what she knows. Barney Black, their leader, decides to wait until things quieten down before retrieving the loot. George sees a newspaper article about Mary Gray''s elopement, along with a photo of her. He decides to discharge her, but he and Mary are attracted to each other, so she is able to make him change his mind again. Then Clara shows up and demands half of the proceeds of the necklace from Mary. Mary does not know what she is talking about, but offers to give her a valuable ring to go away. While Mary gets it, Clara finds and takes the necklace from her purse. After Clara leaves, Dick arrives (having paid Clara $500 for the information), followed by Sergeant Daly and then the crooks. The thieves abduct Mary. Daly, however, catches Clara when she tries to slip away by herself. She gives up the pearls in exchange for leniency. George drives off after Mary, but Barney shoots him in the shoulder and also his two front tires. The gang head to their hideout: a fake hospital. When George pulls into a garage, one of the men offers to drive him to the same hospital. George is tipped off when he sees that the doctor there has a pistol. He manages to rescue Mary, just before the police arrive to arrest the jewel thieves.'
'musical, comedy','William Reynolds is set to inherit $350 million on his next birthday, but his uncle says he must learn the ways of the world beforehand. His uncle hires three follies girls to guide William around New York.[1]'
'comedy','When Littleton Looney, a crane driver, inherits $18,000 from his uncle, he decides to fulfill his dream and go to Europe (he is a great admirer of Napoleon). His ex-boss, Hopkins, and a couple of Hopkins'' cronies decide to pull a prank on him; they send telegrams (supposedly from John D. Rockefeller, Henry Ford and others) to the captain of the luxury liner that Looney takes, asking that Looney be treated well. On the ship before it departs, one of the pranksters convince Senator Powell, another passenger, that Looney is Vanderhoff, a famous engineer, traveling incognito. Also aboard is Ellen Saunders. She has 90 days to put some nickel mines in Macedonia into operation, despite not knowing anything about mining, otherwise she will lose them to a syndicate represented by her guardian, banker Sidney Hycross. She rejects his lowball offer for property worth "over a million." When she finds out that a noted engineer is aboard, she learns from the senator that it is Looney. Soon the senator has spread the news all over the ship. When Hycross hears it, he assigns Nick Pangalos the task of keeping Ellen away from Looney. Hycross is pleased to receive a coded telegram informing him that the machinery Ellen needs has been stranded (at his orders) hundreds of miles from the mines. Ellen gets the same news and decides to consult Looney. Looney is only too happy to help however he can, and a romance develops between them. Meanwhile, he is pursued by a gold digger named Flo Goodrich, while her friend Dolly Clark targets Hycross. Hycross, suspicious of Looney''s alleged identity, goads Ellen into a bet: if Looney is not Vanderhoff, she will accept his deal and sign over the mines. Hycross sends a telegram to the Syracuse chamber of commerce. Hopkins, the organization''s secretary, responds with a glowing recommendation, stating "he occupies a unique position in the engineering world". However, Hycross remains unconvinced. In Macedonia, he arranges for real engineers working on the mine problem to meet (and expose) Looney. The machinery cannot be transported to the mines until the September rains raise the level of a river. That would be too late. Looney finally confesses to Ellen that he is not an engineer. Upset, she tells Hycross she will sign his agreement. However, when a persistent engineer pleads with Looney, still believing he is the builder of the New Erie Canal, to think some more, Looney tells him, "Oh, dry up. Damn the canal." That suddenly gives him an idea. He tells the engineers to dam the river. The river bed is composed of slate, which will make a usable road for the stranded machinery. Impressed, "Senator Powell", who is really Vanderhoff, decides to hire Looney; the syndicate hired him to check up on Hycross. Looney ends up with Ellen and a job as consulting engineer at her mines.'
'drama','After years of abusing his Austrian immigrant wife Sarah Storm, Jim Grey, a vaudeville entertainer, disappears with their young son Bobby. He eventually sells Bobby to a wealthy couple, the Ashmores. They refuse to return the boy and attempt to return in his stead the deaf mute son of one of their servants. Bobby, unhappy with the too protective Ashmores, runs away to live with his uncle Howard Vanning, a successful attorney. Years later, Sarah has become an internationally famous opera singer being courted by Howard, who engineers an encounter.'
'crime drama','In the prologue to the film (taking place in 1911) we learn that, being unable to care for her baby, Mary Bancroft (Elsie Ferguson), had to give her up for adoption. Years later (in 1930), we find Bancroft as a successful female lawyer in New York. She refuses to marry District Attorney John Remington (John Halliday), because she doesn''t want to tell him about her unfortunate past. Bancroft and Remington go to a nightclub one night where Nora Mason (Marian Nixon) works as a singer and dancer. Nora Mason is actually Bancroft''s biological daughter but neither of them knows it. Although Nora is tired of the work she is doing and wants to settle down and marry Robert Lawrence (Grant Withers), her adoptive "father" Dr. Henry Mason (played by Wilbur Mack) has other plans for her. Dr. Mason wants to sell Nora to Gregory Jackson (William B. Davidson), who promises to star Nora in a show that will bring in lots of money, as long as she gives herself to Jackson. When Nora hears of this sordid deal from the lips of Dr. Mason, she kills him with a gun her adoptive "mother"(Charlotte Walker) has recently bought. Lawrence, with a friend who is an acquaintance of Bancroft''s, goes to the office of Bancroft to ask her to defend Nora. At first reluctant, Bancroft finally decides to take the case. Nora at first refuses to tell the reasons for killing her adoptive father Dr. Mason until it comes out in court that she has been adopted. Nora then informs the jury the entire details of what had occurred prior to the murder; it is obliquely stated that she had been molested by Dr. Mason. When Bancroft finds out her client is actually her own daughter she passes out in court. Nora is acquitted and eventually forgives her real mother for abandoning her as a child.'
'adventure','Pink Barker (Arlen) loses his boat and his girl Daisy (Wray) to his bitter rival Schultz (Gleckler), but his fortunes change when an old, dying sailor he rescues at sea tells him about a fortune to be had in pearls. Unfortunately, the pearl beds lie off an island inhabited by cannibals. Barker sails in search of the island with his friend Square Deal (Pallette). Still in love with Pink, Daisy stows away but is soon discovered and forced by her unforgiving ex to work her passage. The cannibals attack Pink’s boat while he is underwater collecting the pearl oysters, forcing him to cut his air line and make for the shore. Unable to remove his cumbersome diving suit he later stumbles into the native village where Square Deal and Daisy are being held, and the islanders mistake him for a god. Schultz and his men, having followed Pink’s boat to the island, capture Pink, Square Deal and Daisy. Square Deal and Daisy are sent as prisoners to his boat, but just as Schultz is about to do away with Pink, his party are attacked by the natives. Pink escapes but Schultz and his men are all killed. Still trapped on the island, Pink puts on his god-like diving suit again and is able to subdue the natives long enough to swim out to the boat where he is reunited with his friends.'
'romance','Vallery Grove (Costello) is in love with Don Warren (Morris), but her mother opposes the match because he is poor and has no social standing. Don decides to terminate his engagement to Vallery after attending a party where he meets a spoiled rich girl who is interested in him. Dolores is later introduced to Owen Mallory (Mulhall) who informs her that Don is now planning to marry the spoiled rich girl. Mallory, who has himself been recently jilted, and Vallery find comfort in each other and eventually Owen proposes to Vallery. She finally accepts, and they elope. Once she is married, Vallery discovers that Don has broken off his engagement. She becomes uncertain about her love for Mallory and while her husband is away on business, she invites Don, who is drunk, into her house.'
'mystery','Geoffrey West and Marion Ferguson (Grant Withers and Loretta Young), two American tourists in London, meet each other at a London hotel while eating breakfast. Both are reading the personal columns of The Times. The next day Withers inserts an ad, under the alias of Lord Strawberries, which requests her friendship. Ferguson, using the alias of Lady Grapefruit, places an ad in reply which suggests that he write a series of five letters proving himself worth knowing. West makes up a fabulous story about a murder mystery based on the things he has heard his upstairs neighbors arguing about. Ferguson''s aunt, who disapproves of West, suspects West is the murderer and contacts Scotland Yard. West''s neighbor (the one he mentioned in his letters) is found dead and the police immediately suspect West and Ferguson as being involved in the murder. The real murderer, when he hears they are prime suspects, then attempts to frame them.'
'drama','Not long after the death of his first wife, Walter Fairchild becomes engaged to Florence Wendell. Florence ignores the warnings of Gilbert Gaylord, who is also interested in marrying her, that she doesn''t know what she is getting herself into; that no woman will ever be able to fill the void in Fairchild''s life left by the death of his wife. After they are married, Fairchild and Florence have some contention as she buys into the warnings given her by Gaylord. To appease her, they move out of the house he shared with his first wife, and allows her to furnish the new home. Sensing that he and his new wife need some time alone together to start their new lives, he sends his seven-year-old son, Walter Jr., to a boarding school in Switzerland. After Florence becomes pregnant, Fairchild is notified that is son is very ill, and will most likely not recover. Despite Florence''s pleas for him not to leave her, he travels to his son''s side. As he leaves, Florence tells him not to return. As Fairchild waits with his son, Florence is once again wooed by her former suitor, Gaylord. Thinking that she is permanently estranged from her husband, Florence agrees to run away with him. Walter Jr. recovers from his illness, and returns home with his father. As Florence is about to leave with Gaylord, he tells her that he only wants her, that she''ll have to give up the baby. She refuses, and returns to Fairchild, who takes her back.'
'crime','Mechanical engineer James "Jim" Montgomery escorts attractive blonde Ethel George to her apartment, one floor up from where he himself lives. However, inside she is startled to find an angry Lew Durkin, a "Chicago millionaire". Jim leaves, but later she flees to his place, chased by Durkin. When Durkin starts strangling the woman, Jim intervenes. In the ensuing fight, Jim punches Durkin, who then falls out the window to his death. Anxious to avoid the scandal and publicity, the woman runs away. When Police Lieutenant Mike Kearney arrives, Jim makes a mistake and claims there was nobody else in the room. When Kearney tells him that an eyewitness saw him push Durkin out the window, he tells the truth, but Kearney does not believe his changed story. They go upstairs to see Miss George, but she is gone. Without her testimony, Jim is convicted and sent to prison for life. He shares a cell with Pete for three years. Then the warden asks him to find out who Pete''s accomplices were and the hiding place of the loot from a robbery Pete is suspected of having committed, giving him a trustee''s cushy job and dangling the possibility of "executive clemency". However, Jim tells Pete right away. Pete has been plotting an escape, but he convinces Jim to take his place instead, as Pete only has two more years to serve. Jim gets away. Two years later, Jim is in Suffolk, North Carolina, working as mill manager "John Nelson". His girlfriend, Edith Wentworth, is the daughter of the mill''s owner. Jim is reunited with his friend Pete. Private detectives have located Ethel George, but now he needs someone he can trust completely to go see her in New York and make her tell the truth. Despite his distrust of all "Janes", Pete agrees to do it. Ethel "Barry" at first denies being Ethel George, but changes her mind after Pete tells her that Jim has become successful and can pay a lot of money. However, when Pete leaves, she telephones the police, having obtained from Pete where Jim is living. Pete is picked up, questioned by Kearney and jailed on suspicion of robbery when Pete refuses to say where he got $5000. Kearney has the new bills traced. Meanwhile, Ethel shows up at Colonel Wentworth''s party. She tells Jim privately that she wants $50,000, a sum he does not have, but she points out that Colonel Wentworth would pay that much to protect his daughter. Jim decides to quit his job, but when Edith confronts him, he tells her everything. She then tells her father that he is not leaving after all. Colonel Wentworth is delighted with his future son-in-law. Then Kearney shows up. Jim desperately claims he is not the escaped convict. When Ethel comes in, Jim offers her the $50,000, but having been told that Kearney is a police officer, she claims Jim is trying to bribe her to commit perjury. To temporarily avoid being identified by his fingerprints, Jim deliberately injures his hands in some mill machinery. Kearney decides to take a chance that Jim is telling the truth and promises to get the truth out of Ethel.'
'comedy','Tommy Mills wants to marry his girlfriend, Marie Thurber, but cannot afford it. When he inherits a piece of property, he plans on selling it in order to facilitate the marriage. However, Marie is also being pursued by Bernard Norton, who is not as seemingly dull as Tommy. Marie''s parents would prefer their daughter to marry Tommy, but things get complicated when Marie''s father, Warren, needs to sell a piece of property he owns in order to get himself out of financial difficulty. The town is interested in both pieces, but will only purchase one of them. To further complicate matters, Tommy''s uncle, David Tuttle is attempting to broker the deal for the purchase of the land. In the confusion which ensues, both land parcels are sold without the permission of their owners. The resulting chaos gives the appearance of misdeeds by Tommy, which pushes Marie towards the arms of her other suitor. However, the truth comes out in the end, both Tommy and Mr. Thurber sell their properties and alleviate their financial needs, and Tommy and Marie get married.'
'crime','Larry Sheldon is a gambler, who learns that a friend of his has been murdered by a local gangster, Spot Willis. When he goes to confront Spot, a melee ensues in which Spot winds up dead. Thinking that he is responsible for the death, Sheldon flees the city aboard a train, with his companion, Chick. They share a Pullman compartment with an itinerant minister, Mr. Walters, whose wallet Chick unobtrusively removes from his pocket. When Sheldon discovers the theft, he chastises Chick and is determined to return the pilfered purse to its rightful owner. However, before he can, the train is involved in a serious accident, in which Sheldon is knocked unconscious. When he awakes, Sheldon is in the home Reverend Powell, where he is recuperating. Due to his possession of Walters'' wallet, the Reverend believes Sheldon to be the evangelist, a mistake which Sheldon does not correct, thinking that it will help him hide from the authorities. Sheldon, as time passes, begins to fall in love with the Reverend''s daughter, Doris. He also begins to take the role of evangelistic minister seriously as well. Things come to a head when the Reverend''s son, Tommy, loses a significant amount of money to a local gambler, Martin. When Sheldon goes to Tommy''s rescue, he is recognized by Martin, who calls in the police. In the events that follow, however, the truth is revealed that Sheldon did not actually kill Spots when another man confesses to the murder. Free from criminal charges, Sheldon and Doris begin a life together, with Sheldon continuing as an aspiring minister, but this time under his real name.'
'musical comedy','When the film begins, a musical show before closed down before it has had a chance to even open. Jimmie Doyle (Jack Mulhall), who wrote the musical intends to rewrite it while his girlfriend, Dixie Dugan (Alice White), fed up at wasting her time for a show that never even opened, is intent on finding a new career. While at a nightclub, Dixie does a musical number and catches the eye of Frank Buelow (John Miljan), a Hollywood director. Buelow persuades Dixie to go to Hollywood, where he will have a part waiting for her in his upcoming films. Dixie takes the next train to California. When she arrives, she is disappointed to find that Buelow has been fired from the studio and that there is no part for her. Dixie meets Donny Harris (Blanche Sweet), a former star who is now out of work because she is considered "as old as the hills" at the age of 32.[5] Soon after, Dixie discovers that Jimmie Doyle is now in Hollywood because one of the movie studios had just bought the film rights to his musical play. Jimmie had insisted that Dixie be given the lead in the film version of his play. The film goes into production and Dixie manages to get Donny included in the cast. One day, Dixie meets Frank Buelow at a restaurant and tells her that he is now working for another studio. Through his influence, Buelow manages to change Dixie into a temperamental and conceited actress and this leads to complications which almost end her film career.'
'drama','In the Alaska wilderness, Boyd Emerson and Fraser, arrive by dogsled at a village. They are puzzled to receive a chilly welcome from its inhabitants. Frustrated, Boyd gets into a fight with local George Balt, which is broken up by Cherry Malotte. She invites the newcomers to dinner. She explains that they have stumbled into a bitter struggle between two rival fishing groups, hers and Fred Marsh''s. Boyd is ready to give up his fruitless search for gold. Cherry reinvigorates him and persuades him to join her side. She sends him, Fraser and Balt to Seattle to get a loan of $200,000 from Cherry''s banker friend, Tom Hilliard, to rebuild a cannery. After concluding the deal, Boyd goes to see his socialite fiancée, Mildred Wayland. She is determined to marry him, despite her father''s wish that she wed someone with wealth: none other than Fred Marsh. When Marsh provokes him, Boyd carelessly blurts out his plans. Wayne Wayland and Marsh conspire and succeed in having Cherry''s financing withdrawn. Notified, Cherry sails for Seattle and dines with Hilliard. It soon becomes plain to the banker that Cherry has fallen in love with Boyd. He explains that the young man already has a girlfriend, and points out the couple dancing elsewhere in the establishment. Cherry then secures the loan by taking up Hilliard''s offer to go to his apartment. Boyd assumes, however, that it was due to Mildred''s influence with her father. Returning to Alaska with new machinery and Balt''s crew, Boyd gets the cannery running in weeks, just in time for the annual salmon run. When Marsh sends his men to wreck their equipment, a brawl breaks out on the water, during which the Waylands arrive on their yacht. Marsh tells Mildred about Cherry, that she is a notorious prostitute known from Sitka to San Francisco. He lies, telling Mildred that Cherry got the loan by spending the night with Hilliard at Boyd''s insistence, and that she is more than Boyd''s business partner. Mildred ends her engagement, despite Boyd''s protests of innocence. Boyd, meanwhile, breaks up with Cherry when she cannot deny how she got the money. Concerned only about Boyd''s happiness, Cherry contacts an old friend in her former trade, Queenie. The two board the Wayland yacht, where Cherry proves that Queenie is Marsh''s wife. Cherry then convinces Mildred that, while she loves Boyd, nothing happened between them. When Boyd shows up, Mildred is eager to take him back, but by this time, he realizes who he truly loves. He finds Cherry and tells her he cares only about their future together, not her past.'
'comedy','Sylvia Brenner (Constance Bennett) is a plain secretary sharing an apartment with two other girls, one of whom is her friend Annie (ZaSu Pitts). Her economic condition is meager, but she makes do with what she has. She works for a womanizing divorce attorney, Gaylord Stanton (Kenneth MacKenna), who only dates married women; he has no intention of ever getting married and sees wives as safe, since they already have husbands. But Sylvia is secretly in love with Gaylord. When the woman he is fooling around with, Grace Lawrence (Rita La Roy), decides to leave her husband in order to marry Gaylord, he panics. In order to avoid having to deal with the matrimonial pursuits of any of his potential dalliances, he offers a business proposal to Sylvia whereby he will provide her with financial remuneration if she will marry him in name only. She agrees. After the sham wedding, Sylvia is sent off to Paris by Gaylord, to get her out of the way so he can continue his nightly debauchery. In Paris, she uses her money to do a serious makeover of herself. While there, she also meets her boss''s old friend, Reggie Durant (Basil Rathbone), who falls in love with her. Reggie is a sophisticated European, who introduces Sylvia to the enticements of the European lifestyle, to which she is attracted. When Reggie asks Sylvia to divorce Gaylord so that she can marry him, she is tempted, but confused, and returns home. Returning to the States, everyone takes notice of the transformed Sylvia. Although there is a brief hiccup, as Grace puts forth a full-court offensive to win over Gaylord, Gaylord and Sylvia end up realizing that they are in love with each other.'
'crime','Ma Delano (Lucille La Verne) runs a penny arcade on an amusement pier at Coney Island with her children Jennie, Joe, and Harry (Evalyn Knapp, Ray Gallagher and James Cagney). Underneath La Verne''s establishment, Mitch McKane (Warren Hymer) is running a bootleg operation. In order to escape detection, McKane doubles as a sideshow operator. Angel Harrigan (Grant Withers), who works as a barker, is in love with Jennie. When McKane attempts to flirt with Jennie he is thwarted by Angel. Harry secretly becomes involved in McKanes''s bootlegging operation, against the wishes of his mother. When McKane gets picked up by the police on suspicion of bootlegging, Harry takes over his operations and pockets the proceeds. McKane is unexpectedly released from prison and discovers Harry''s treachery. He encounters Harry on a darkened pier but Harry shoots him before he can act. Harry confesses everything to his mother, but she attempts to place the blame on Angel, who she doesn''t like, by placing the murder weapon in his briefcase. As Angel is about to be taken away by the police, Jennie, who witnessed the crime and is in love with Angel, tells the police the truth, and her brother Harry confesses to the crime much to the chagrin of his mother.'
'comedy','Marco Perkins (Oakie) is a garage mechanic and a would-be-prizefighter who gets a place on the ritzy country club''s polo team because he is the town''s most proficient mallet-wielder, having learned to play polo while serving in U.S. army. His hobnobbing with the town-elite and social upper-crust at the polo-matches gives him an inflated idea of his social position, and he decides he is moving on up. He breaks off with his girl-friend, true-blue Cynthia Brown (Brian), and hits on débutante Gloria Staunton (Borden), who appears to have an interest in being hit upon. Gloria''s interest lies mostly in showing marco that hired-hands who can play polo still aren''t to the manor born.'
'comedy drama','The story takes place towards the end of the first World War. Georgie Wilson is gambling with some friends. When one of them accuses him of cheating they get into a fight. When Wilson sees his opponent fall down the stairs he assumes he has died. He escapes with his friend, Tim, before the police arrive by joining a parade of men who are enlisting for the army. They end up joining together as Tim made his mind up that he wants to join the Army. They get into trouble with their captain on numerous occasions, leading him to punish them numerous times by making them stable cleaners. When they are stationed at the German town of Koblenz, Wilson meets and falls in love with Gretchen Rittner, daughter of an innkeeper. He is unable to propose marriage to her, however, with a murder charging hanging over his head. Eventually, the man he thought he murdered turns up and this allows Wilson to finally marry Gretchen.'
'romance','Sam Lee (Barthelmess) is the only son of extremely wealthy Chinese merchant Lee Ying. Sam can pass as white. Lee Ying sends him to a prestigious university, where he studies hard. He is tolerated in white social circles, even though it is known there that he is Chinese, because of his money. One day, two fellow students talk him into a triple date, but the white girls are outraged when they find out that they are out with a "dirty yellow Chinaman". They pressure the two white men to make up a transparently fake excuse to leave. Insulted, Sam drops out of school. He tells Lee Ying that he is going to travel on his own, without his father''s financial support. He takes a lowly job aboard a ship and ends up working for a novelist named Bathurst because of his knowledge of Chinese. In the south of France, Sam meets Allana Wagner (Bennett), the spoiled daughter of an indulgent father. Allana falls madly in love with Sam. Though Sam loves her too, he is afraid to pursue a relationship until she tells him that she was once engaged to a man from India. Everything goes well for a while. One day, however, Allana''s father tells her he has found out that Sam is Chinese. She flies into a rage and repeatedly lashes Sam in public with her riding crop, revealing to all within earshot why. Later, she deeply regrets what she did and telephones to apologize, but Sam has returned home to New York City, having received word that his father is very ill. Sam rushes home, only to find that his father has died, attended on his deathbed by Eileen, a childhood white friend of Sam''s. (Lee Ying never forgot Eileen''s uncle''s kindness to him, and had made Eileen his very well-paid secretary.) Embittered, Sam renounces the white world and its Christian values and embraces his Chinese heritage. He runs his father''s business empire with an iron fist, denying his white customers credit. Meanwhile, Allana embarks on a wild round of non-stop partying to try to forget Sam, but only succeeds in ruining her health. One day, she collapses and is near death. In her delirium, she calls for Sam repeatedly. Her racist father reluctantly asks Sam to come see her. Sam pays a visit, and Allana recovers. Finally Eileen sends for her uncle Dugan. He tells Sam that, while a policeman in San Francisco, he found an abandoned child. Assuming that he was Chinese, Dugan gave the boy to Lee Ying and his wife, who had been praying for a child. After a few years, it became apparent that the boy was actually white. Since Sam was never formally adopted, Dugan recommends to Lee Ying that he relocate to New York to avoid risking losing Sam. Unable to quench her love for Sam, Allana tells him that she wants to marry him before he has a chance to tell her that he is white. The lovers are happily reunited.'
'operetta','Aniuta (Bernice Claire, known as The Flame, is a peasant girl who incites the people against the Czarist regime and the aristocracy through singing. Prince Volodya (Alexander Gray) is the leader of a group of Cossack troops who falls in love with the girl, even though she is part of a revolution that is opposed to his social class. Konstantin (Noah Beery) is a revolutionary who also falls in love with Aniuta, much to the anger of his lover, Natasha (Alice Gentle). The revolutionaries succeed in overthrowing the regime, leaving the Prince and his aristocratic class in peril for their lives and fortunes. Konstantin becomes the new leader and his brutal treatment of the people make many regret having supported the revolution in the first place. After he attempts to seduce her, Aniuta flees to a village in her native Poland. The Prince, fleeing from the new regime, happens to arrive at the same village. When he meets the girl again he decides to stay. They put their political differences aside and become romantically involved. Hearing from his spies that the Prince is at a Polish village, Konstantin immediately goes there and arrests him, announcing that he attends to execute him. Aniuta desperately attempts to free the Prince by agreeing to have sex with Konstantin. The Prince is released from prison through this ruse, but when is it discovered that she had no intention of keeping her side of the bargain, she is thrown into jail. The Prince disguises himself and attempts to free the girl, but he is discovered and imprisoned again. Before they can be executed, Natasha, revealing the real reason behind Konstantin''s execution order, tells the troops to release both the Prince and Aniuta. Konstantin is arrested by the troops soon after as a traitor to the revolution, and is executed, leaving the Prince and the girl free to pursue their romance.'
'musical','The story takes place in 1849. Captain Stanton (John Boles), who because of a misunderstanding over a woman with Major Davolo, has been cited for a court martial. As a scout, he is sent to escort a wagon train which is under military escort. It turns out that this escort is his own former regiment. When he meet Davolo, there is another fight and between Stanton and Davolo in which Davolo is killed. The colonel has Stanton put in the guard house on a murder charge. He escapes disguised as a parson and continues along with the wagon train in order to be near Virginia, the daughter of his former commander, played by Vivienne Segal. They fall in love and when Stanton decides to leave the wagon train, Virginia follows him. Stanton marries Virginia and opens a gambling hall. When the regiment eventually turns up at the gambling hall, Virginia makes merry with her former friends. Stanton, in a fit of jealousy, leaves the establishment with another woman and tries his luck in California, searching for gold. He has poor luck and becomes a derelict. Eventually he meets his wife in San Francisco, resulting in a happy reconciliation. Some soldiers find him and give him a choice between being deported or re-enlisting in the army. He re-enlists. Joe E. Brown, in the part of Hasty, his doomed sidekick, provided the comedy for the film.'
'comedy','Ted Healy is a salesman for the Schmidt Costume Shop who likes to hang out at the fire station where Moe (billed as "Harry Howard"), Larry and Shemp (along with Fred Sanborn) work. Old man Schmidt spends more time building crazy inventions (typical of devices by writer/cartoonist Rube Goldberg) than tending to his business; as a consequence he is bankrupt and his business is taken over by his creditors, who send a young man named Carlson to manage the business. Carlson immediately falls for Mr. Schmidt''s niece, Louise, but she resists him. Meanwhile, a certain General Avocado wants to organize a revolution in San Stevedore and comes to the costume shop to order uniforms; sadly his army flees in fright without paying at the sound of a child bursting a toy balloon. Ted also swings a deal with the Fire Department to supply costumes for the fireman''s ball. Carlson wants to take Louise, so Ted hatches a plan to take Louise, and have himself and Carlson dressed alike, then switch places at the ball. When Louise learns of the switch, she runs back to the shop and locks herself in her room. Carlson chases her home, and unknowingly starts a fire while trying to persuade her to come out. The firemen (the Stooges) arrive to extinguish the blaze — with the unexpected help of one of Old Man Schmidt''s inventions — and at last Louise and Carlson are a couple.'
'western','While traveling to Nome, Alaska, Roy Glenister (Gary Cooper) meets beautiful Helen Chester (Kay Johnson), who soon becomes his sweetheart. Glenister is one of several owners of a lucrative mine called The Midas. When he arrives in Nome, he discovers that his partners, Slapjack Simms (Slim Summerville) and Joe Dextry (James Kirkwood), are in the middle of a legal dispute with three corrupt officials: United States Marshal Voorhees (Jack Holmes), Judge Stillman (Lloyd Ingraham), and a politician named Alec McNamara (William "Stage" Boyd ). They have been engaged in a racket claiming titles to various mines, ejecting the miners, and then making McNamara owner of the disputed properties. The three corrupt officials lay claim to The Midas. McNamara also steals money from Glenister, Dextry, and Slapjack, preventing them from enlisting legal help from the United States. When Dextry and Glenister plan a vigilante action, McNamara calls in a detail of soldiers to protect "his property". As Glenister and McNamara prepare for a gunfight, they are dissuaded by Helen, who suggests that the courts handle the dispute. Later, after jealous saloon owner Cherry Malotte (Betty Compson) lies to Glennister telling him that Helen and McNamara are conspiring to cheat him again, Glennister and McNamara settle their differences with a spectacular fistfight, with McNamara getting the worst. Afterwards, Glenister wins the hand of Helen.'
'musical','Bernice Claire is in love with Lawrence Gray. Claire''s father, played by Ford Sterling, disapproves of Lawrence but approves another suitor, played by Alexander Gray. Alexander is shy and clumsy while Lawrence is outgoing and romantic. When Bernice returns one night at 5 a.m. with Lawrence, her father orders him to stay away from his daughter. Alexander, being discouraged at being rejected by Bernice, is offered help by Inez Courtney, Bernice''s younger sister. Alexander follows her advice and attempts to make Bernice jealous to get her attention. He makes love to several women, including Bernice''s mother. The trick works and soon Bernice thinks she is deeply in love with Alexander. Sterling gets into an argument with Lawrence and tells him to leave his house for good. Lawrence returns in the middle of the night to elope with Bernice but Alexander shows up and carries her off for himself. In the morning they are found together in Bernice''s room, to the shock of the family, and they eventually reveal to everyone that they have eloped.'
'comedy','John Marsden, a famed and powerful New York gambler who refuses to throw a game, is devoted to his wife, Alma, and his impressionistic younger brother, "Babe," to whom he sends a wedding gift of $10,000, which Babe may keep on the condition that he does not indulge in gambling. Alma, dismayed by John''s ruthless tactics and his obsession with gambling, threatens to leave him unless he takes his winnings and leaves the city with her. He agrees. However, that evening Babe, who has become a cardsharp, comes to town with his new wife, Judith. He goes to see his brother, whom he believes is a stockbroker, unaware of John''s true profession and the reality that he is trying to quit and rebuild his marriage. Babe insists on playing and tries to win a fortune with his savings in an organized gambling session. He wins remarkably. The professional gambler sees that his card-playing sibling is preparing to make the same mistakes he did. John therefore decides to risk his life and gamble one more time, and to break the gambler''s code and cheat by throwing the game, in order to disillusion Babe, thereby teaching him an unforgettable lesson. However, John is caught cheating by Dorgan and becomes a marked man. John is later mortally wounded, in spite of his wife''s attempts to save him.'
'drama','Elinor, encouraged by her ambitious sister, reluctantly agrees to marry wealthy businessman Ludwig Kranz. However she is repulsed by his un-attractive physical appearance and his aloof, materialistic personality. Unable to go through with consummating the marriage, Elinor flees on their wedding night. Kranz angrily plots revenge, hiring a plane and heading out over the English Channel where he abandons the aircraft by parachute in order to fake his own death. Kranz goes to Berlin and bribes a plastic surgeon, Dr Goodman, to re-model his facial features. After months of work, Kranz is transformed into a different, and much more handsome, looking man. With a fake identity, Kranz returns to England and seeks out Elinor with the intention of seducing and then humiliating her. With his new face, Kranz adopts a warmer, more charming manner and inwardly his previously dour character begins to soften. Elinor falls in love with him and to his surprise, he discovers his feelings for her are heading the same way. Kranz realizes that Elinor never married him for his wealth and that it was the cold, heartless manner of his prior self that drove her away the first time. Kranz decides he is prepared to forget the past and embarks on his new life and love with Elinor.'
'musical','Marylin Miller plays the part of an American circus performer, doing her act in a British circus, who is engaged to a man she does not love. A former boyfriend, played by Lawrence Gray, stops by to see her before taking boat back to the United States. Miller realizing that she loves Gray, decides to run away. She embarks on the same boat that Lawrence takes. Her father, who realizes what his daughter has done, reaches the boat just as it is about to leave and manages to board it. While on board, Gray becomes engaged to be married to a wealthy socialite (Barbara Bedford). Miller learns that she will not be allowed to disembark in the United States without a passport. In order to land, Miller marries an American friend, intending to divorce him as soon as she is safely inside the United States. After arriving in the States, Miller tells Gray about her love for him. Bedford overhears them and tells Gray that she will announce their engagement at a party that very night. Disappointed, Miller decides to return to England, but Gray proposes to her just as she is about to leave.'
'musical comedy','Kitty Bellairs (Claudia Dell), a famous flirt of her day, comes to Bath for the season. Early on in the film she declares that "in spite of her thirty or forty affairs, I''ve lost not a bit of my virtue." Her path is strewn with a number of conquests, including an enamored highwayman, a lord and some others who hang on her every word. A highwayman stops her coach as she is on her way to Bath and is immediately raptured by Kitty Bellairs. He trades the loot from the passengers for a kiss from Kitty who feels she should "yield" in order to save the life of Lord Varney (Walter Pidgeon), who has gallantly come to defend her honor. In spite of this, Lord Varney draws his sword and ends up losing the fight when he loses his sword, upon which the highwayman declares, "Blood is not a pretty sight for tender eyes, Retrieve your sword while I go about my business." He proceeds to kiss Kitty who declares she considers herself not to have been kissed at all, upon which the highwayman kisses her several times and slips a ring on her finger leaving her enraptured. Lord Varney, however, is in love with Kitty himself but is extremely bashful and shy. The film then progresses to the city of Bath, where the inhabitants sing an amusing song about their daily lives, and the proceeds to a dance which Kitty is attending. She meets Captain O''Hara (Perry Askam) who declares his love for her. When Lord Varney approaches and asks for his dance from Kitty, Captain O''Hara declares that "it ''was'' his dance" and whisks her away. Lord Varney is approached by his friend who laughs at his shyness. Nevertheless, Lord Varney declares his love for her and decides to write a love poem to Kitty. The film then proceeds to the next day and we see Kitty being tended to by her maid while chatting with her hairdresser about her three lovers. She describes them and asks his opinion on whom she should choose. The film then proceeds to the house of Lady Julia Standish (June Collyer) on whom Kitty is paying a call. Lady Julia''s husband is neglecting her and Kitty gives her advice on how to make her husband interested once again. Her husband, Sir Jasper Standish (Ernest Torrence) arrives from a trip to find her dressed elegantly as if expecting a caller. Meanwhile, Kitty places a love note addressed to her in a conspicuous place with a lock of red hair and leaves the house. Through a welter of songs into which the principals break at short intervals she at length decides on a lord instead of a highwayman. Lord Varney, hearing that Kitty was visiting Lady Standish, comes to call on Kitty at Lord Standish''s house. Lord Standish immediately assumes that he is fooling around with his wife and insults him so that he must fight a duel "according to the code" in order to uphold his honor. The report of the scandal soon flies through the town and we are taken to a bath where everyone is talking about the supposed affair. Kitty happens to be there and as soon as she hears the story she begins to fear for the life of Lord Varney, whom she now realizes is the one she really loves. Through a welter of songs into which the principals break at short intervals, as well as outrageous Pre-Code comedy, satire and drama, Kitty and Lord Varney are at length united. The film contains several examples of Pre-Code humor. In one scene, an obviously gay hairdresser is talking to Kitty Bellairs about her love affairs. Kitty asks him which man she should choose and the hairdresser says she should choose the highwayman because he prefers "a manly man." In another scene, Kitty teaches her friend how to get her husband to pay attention to her. Her instructions include wearing Parisian negligee and finding another lover.'
'drama','When the film begins we find Alice White stranded several hundred miles away from New York with a burlesque troupe. She receives a telegraph that her boyfriend, played by David Manners, is in jail. White boards a train headed for New York without a ticket because she has no money. When the conductor discovers she has no ticket she is almost thrown off the train. A detective, played by Robert Elliott, befriends White and offers to let White borrow the money she needs for a ticket. When she arrives in New York she finds that Manners has been bailed out by a friend and is working for Kenneth Thomson, playing as a gangster who runs a nightclub. White is disappointed to find that her boyfriend is working for criminals. She gets some money from Manners to pay back Elliott for the money he gave her for a train ticket. Elliott notices that she is paying with bills that have been reported stolen. White confesses everything she knows to the detective about her boyfriend and his new employer. Elliott asks White to get a job at the nightclub so that she can get evidence against the gangsters and in return he promises to clear her boyfriend of any wrongdoing. White easily gets a job singing and dancing at the club. Eventually she hears plans about a bank robbery and reports everything to Elliott. When the gangster attempt to rob the bank they realize that the police are watching and waiting and conclude that someone has informed the police ahead of time. Thompson suspects that White has informed the police. In order to save her, Manners implicates himself and the gangsters get ready to stage an accidental suicide for him. They plan to throw Manners out of the window of Thompson''s penthouse apartment. White informs the police and arrives in the nick of time to save Manners. Thompson, realizing now that the police have ample evidence against him, attempts to escape and is shot by the police. Manners and White are happily reunited and the film ends.'
'western','A young bandit called the Llano Kid (Gary Cooper) is wanted by the law and has a price on his head. After stopping in at the local blacksmith, John Brown (James A. Marcus), a highly religious man who fancies himself a sheriff, the Kid gets into a poker game during which he notices a young gambler cheating, confronts him, and is forced to kill him in self-defense. The Kid is then pursued by Sheriff Brown and is almost apprehended, but is able to get the draw on the zealous lawman. As the Kid leaps into the saddle, Sheriff Brown pledges, "God will deliver you into my hands." Later aboard a train, the Kid meets an unscrupulous lawyer named Thacker (Oscar Apfel), who convinces him to pose as the son of Señora Ibarra (Emma Dunn), a wealthy South American widow whose son Enrique disappeared fifteen years earlier. Having set himself up as the widow''s agent hired to find the lost son, Thacker plans to return with her "son" and swindle the widow''s gold in the process. Soon the two men set sail aboard a schooner to South America, where they arrive at Señora Ibarra''s family hacienda in a little seaport town of Buenas Tierras. With his basic Spanish speaking skills, new sideburns, and tattooed hand (similar to Enriques), the Kid is able to pass himself off as Enrique, the long lost son of Señora Ibarra. Their plans are interrupted, however, when the Kid meets and falls in love with his lovely "niece" Consuelo (Fay Wray). Softened by Señora Ibarra''s affection for him, and his newfound love, he begins to have second doubts about the scheme. When the Kid learns that Señora Ibarra''s son was in fact the very man he shot in self-defense in the saloon, he calls off his deal with Thacker. Angered by this turn of events, Thacker organizes a gang to steal the gold outright. Meanwhile, Sheriff Brown arrives at Buenas Tierras, having finally tracked down the Llano Kid, who has been "delivered into his hands". He waits until nightfall before making the arrest. During the ensuing gunfight, the Kid is wounded, and Thacker is killed. Afterwards, Brown has a change of heart after seeing the Kid''s true character and courage. The sheriff agrees to keep the Kid''s identity secret so Enrique can continue his life with his new family.'
'musical','Big-league baseball players Jerry and Jack are also pretty good at singing. They perform in a vaudeville show, where both fall in love with Mary, a dancer, while a second woman tries to come between them before the next World Series.'
'comedy','While on holiday in a small French town, an Englishman (Denny) encounters three French girls (D''Orsay, d''Avril, and Ravel) and two American men (Edwards and Brophy).'
'crime','Monte Blue plays as a police detective who is after a famous gangster (played by William Boyd). He disguises himself and lives in the very house of the famous gangster by pretending he is an out-of-town gangster who has just murdered someone. He pretends he is the sweetheart of an innocent girl (played by Lila Lee) who suspects her brother has been framed for murder by Monte Blue. Blue''s moll, played by Betty Compson, is also in on the conspiracy as she had become fed up with his cheating, lying and brutal treatment. The life of Lee''s brother, who has been sentenced to death in the electric chair, depends on them getting evidence against Boyd.'
'spy drama','The story takes place during World War I. The action opens on a French battlefield. After meeting with German spy Schiller Blacher (Erich von Stroheim), Z-1 (Constance Bennett) is sent on a mission to England. The action then moves into the London home of Sir Winston Chamberlain (William Holden- no relation to the 1950s star of the same name). Sir Winston does not know that his supposedly faithful butler, Vardar, is actually Blacher. When Z-1, as Frances Hawtree, arrives at the home, Vardar, who is in love with her, believes her to be a loyal German agent, but things turn out otherwise when she prevents him from sending a stolen code back to Germany and thus reveals her true allegiance.'
'adventure','After arguing with his sweetheart, Becky Thatcher, Tom Sawyer seeks solace from his friend Huck Finn, who tells him about a mysterious cure for warts that requires them to visit the local cemetery at midnight. While there they witness a murder committed by Injun Joe, who convinces Muff Potter, who also was there but in an inebriated state, that he is guilty of the crime. Tom and Huck promise each other they will not divulge what they have seen. When Tom is caught lying about stealing his half-brother Sid''s crabapples, his Aunt Polly punishes him by making him whitewash the fence on a Saturday morning. The boy leads his friends to believe he is enjoying the task, and before long they are giving him their treasures in exchange for the privilege of joining in the fun. Together with Huck and Joe Harper, Tom runs away from home to become a pirate. The three set off on a raft to Jacksons Island in the Mississippi River, where they remain for three days. Upon returning home, Tom discovers it was thought the three had drowned, and the boys attend their own funeral service at the church. At Muff Potter''s trial, Tom admits the truth about the murder, but Injun Joe manages to escape. While attending the school picnic near a cavern, Tom and Becky decide to explore it and get lost. As they try to find their way out, they stumble upon Injun Joe and a chest of gold. While angrily pursuing the two children, he falls into a crevasse and is killed. Huck finds Tom and Becky and leads them to safety, together with the treasure.'
'comedy','Eddie Haskins (Lease), a wisecracking young man, teams up with two ham-acrobats known as ''Bugs & Sunny'' (Karns and Summerville). When they are all kicked out of a vaudeville theater in California, they enlist in the U. S. Cavalry. Eddie falls in love with Dorothy Clark (Gulliver), the daughter of a sergeant and, following a moonlight tryst, they are discovered by Sergeant Hank Darby (London) who himself is in love with Dorothy. They have a fist-fight in which Eddie comes out second best. When Darby is reprimanded for fighting with an enlisted man, the troopers incorrectly think that Eddie squealed on him, and they punish him with a conspiracy of silence. Dorothy also rejects him. Eddie has a problem. Maybe a fire will break out in the stables and he can rescue Sergeant Darby.'
'drama, crime','A sideshow is closed by the police after Tweedledee (Harry Earles), the embittered "Twenty Inch Man", kicks a young boy, starting a riot. Echo, the ventriloquist, proposes that Tweedledee, the strongman Hercules (Ivan Linow), and he leave and, as "The Unholy Three", use their talents to commit crimes. Echo also takes along his pickpocket girlfriend Rosie (Lila Lee) and his gorilla, whom Hercules fears. Echo disguises himself as Mrs. O''Grady, a kindly old grandmother who runs a pet shop. Tweedledee pretends to be her baby grandson, and Hercules her son-in-law. They use the information they gain from their wealthier patrons to rob them. Echo is the leader and brains behind the outfit, but his bossy ways leave the other two resentful. Meanwhile, the shop''s clerk, Hector McDonald (Elliott Nugent), falls in love with Rosie. The gang is ready to pull off a theft on Christmas Eve. When Echo decides to postpone it, Tweedledee and Hercules go ahead without him. Afterwards, Tweedledee gleefully recounts how they not only robbed but also killed the wealthy Mr. Arlington, despite his pleas for mercy. Worried about the police, they decide to frame Hector by planting a stolen necklace in his closet. That same night, Hector asks Rosie to marry him. Ashamed of her past, she pretends she was only leading him on for a laugh. After he leaves, she starts crying; he returns, sees that she really does love him, and they become engaged. However, Hector is arrested for murder. Still frightened, the Unholy Trio hide out in an isolated cabin in the country, forcibly taking Rosie with them. Rosie pleads with Echo to exonerate Hector somehow in exchange for her returning to him. Tweedledee tries to persuade Hercules to shoot them both, but the strongman refuses. Echo, as "Grandma" O''Grady, shows up at the trial and tries to provide an alibi, but slips up and his disguise is discovered. He makes a full confession and receives a sentence of one to five years. Back at the cabin, Tweedledee overhears Hercules offering Rosie a chance to run away with him (and the loot), so he lets loose the gorilla; Hercules murders Tweedledee before he himself is killed by the ape. Rosie escapes. As Echo is being taken to prison, Rosie promises to wait for him, honoring their agreement. Realizing she loves Hector, he generously tells her not to.'
'comedy, drama','Two convicts, St. Louis (Spencer Tracy) and Dannemora Dan (Warren Hymer) befriend another convict named Steve (Humphrey Bogart), who is in love with woman''s-prison inmate Judy (Claire Luce). Steve is paroled, promising Judy that he will wait for her release five months later. He returns to his hometown in New England and his mother''s home. However, he is followed there by Judy''s former "employer", the scam artist Frosby (Gaylord Pendleton). Frosby threatens to expose Steve''s prison record if the latter refuses to go along with a scheme to defraud his neighbors. Steve goes along with it until Frosby defrauds his mother. Fortunately, at this moment St. Louis and Dannemora Dan have broken out of prison and come to Steve''s aid, taking away a gun he planned to use on the fraudster, instead stealing back bonds stolen by Frosby. They return to prison in time for its annual baseball game against a rival penitentiary. The film closes with St. Louis on the pitcher''s mound with his catcher, Dannemora Dan, presumably ready to lead their team to victory.[1][2]'
'musical','The story takes place in medieval France. King Louis XI (O. P. Heggie), hoping to enlist the French peasants in his upcoming battle against the Burgundians, appoints François Villon (Dennis King) king of France for one day. Despite being successful against the Burgundians, François Villon is sentenced to hang by King Louis XI for writing derogatory verses about him... Jeanette MacDonald is Katherine, the high-born girl whom Villon pines for, while Huguette, a tavern wench (Lillian Roth) gives up her life to save her beloved poet.'
'musical','The film begins in Vienna in the year 1890 and we find that Walter Pidgeon, Alexander Gray and Bert Roach, who are three close friends, are going to join the Austrian army. Eventually, Pidgeon become a lieutenant and as a superior officer he is forced to distance himself from his two former friends. Gray and Pidgeon end up falling in love with a poor girl, played by Vivienne Segal, who is the daughter of a cobbler. Although Segal truly loves Gray, she chooses to marry Pidgeon because of his wealth and position, believing that money and the social mobility that goes with it will bring her happiness. Gray is heartbroken and travels to the United States with his friend Roach. Gray gets a job playing violin in an orchestra but struggles to support his wife and child. In the course of time, Segal travels to the United States and meets Gray and their love is rekindled. Gray learns of Segal''s unhappy marriage and they plan to make a new life together. Segal, however, discovers that Gray is married and has a child. Feeling sorry for Gray''s son, she sacrifices her happiness and returns to Pidgeon, her husband. The film now progresses forty years in time to the year 1930. Segal is now a grandmother and she is planning for her granddaughter, played by Alice Day, to marry a wealthy man since the family''s fortunes are now on the wane. Day, however, falls in love with a composer, who happens to be the grandson of Gray. Segal immediately recalls her romance with Gray and of the mistake she once made. She consents to her granddaughters marriage and reminiscences about the man she really loves, who is now dead. One day after the wedding, while at the park, Segal sees Gray and her spirit walks off with him and leaves her body. The film ends as she is finally reunited with her long lost love.'
'comedy drama','Marya is the wife of medical student Victor Sablin, who finds it impossible to deal with military life when he is inducted into the Russian army during World War I. With her husband is sentenced to death by firing squad due to his insubordination, Marya offers herself to General Gregori Platoff in order to save him. When the two unexpectedly fall in love, Victor — not caring that his life has been spared — threatens to kill his rival. His determination to eliminate the general falters when Marya confesses she is not in love with her husband — and never was.'
'drama, war','During World War I, a small diverse group of young American women leave for France to answer the urgent need for nurses, despite having little or no experience. Under the leadership of socialite Mrs. Townsend (Hopper), they turn an abandoned building into a hospital. They are soon joined by teenage blonde Joy Meadows (Page) (who later divulges to a patient she is "nearly nineteen"). Initially, she is teased for being inexperienced and coming from a privileged background. She is welcomed by Barbara "Babs" Whitney (Walker). Babs attracts the persistent interest of Lieutenant Wally O''Brien (Montgomery), a fighter pilot. Joy has difficulty adjusting to the violent conditions and starts to miss her easy life on the Lower East Side in Manhattan after meeting a wounded New York soldier, Robbie Neil (Ames). She considers giving up, but Mrs. Townsend assures her that she will get used to it. Wally attempts to court Babs, but she is not vulnerable to his advances. They get acquainted, however, after Babs falls off of her bicycle and Wally takes care of her injured ankle. As the months pass, Joy falls in love with Robbie. She dreams of getting married and having babies, and is certain that Robbie will soon ask her. Babs finally agrees to go out with Wally on her first leave since she arrived in France. The four go to a party, along with Brooklyn-born nurse Rosalie Parker (Prevost) and Wally''s friend Frank Stevens (Nugent). The other four leave first. On their way (in a car Wally "borrows"), the couple are subjected to a bomber attack; and Babs finally kisses Wally in the heat of the moment. When they arrive at the party, two drunk men maul her, so they return to her quarters. Wally wants to sleep with her, but Babs rejects him. They get into a major fight when he makes it clear he intends no serious relationship, only to live for the moment, knowing he may be killed at any time. The next morning, Wally announces to Babs that he is leaving on a mission over Germany. Babs is left wondering if she should have given in, while Joy believes she is engaged to Robbie. Shortly after, Joy is told that Robbie is already married. Devastated, she arranges to be transferred to another hospital. Older nurse "Kansas" (Eddy) is killed by artillery while they are moving to a new location. Joy takes to partying wildly, even with married men, in Paris, causing such a scandal that Mrs. Townsend decides she has no choice but to send her back to America. Desperate to remain, Joy turns to Babs for help; Babs gives her an unofficial position. One day, Joy is shocked to find Robbie among their patients. He tells her that he has always loved her, then asks her to pray for him before dying. This soon causes Joy to crack under the pressure. The hospital is bombed, resulting in many deaths. Later, Joy dies after giving birth to a son. Babs takes charge of the baby and considers naming him Wally. After the war ends, the adult Wally returns after being freed from a German prisoner-of-war camp, and tacitly admits he loves Babs.'
'drama','Billy Bear (Fairbanks) is a broker''s clerk who has recently been fired because some information has been leaked to a rival broker. Billy goes to work with the rival broker, offering him valuable information about his former employer. Fairbanks falls in love with his employer''s daughter, Edna (Mathews), a wealthy socialite. Billy abandons his old girlfriend, Poppy (Revier), who is a showgirl. One a hot summer''s day, Billy goes to a luxurious underground bar, run by Stratton (Beery). A tornado descends on the town, the river rises, and suddenly they find themselves trapped in the bar by a break in the levee which pours the flood waters through the streets of the town, which is situated below sea level. A number of people flee into the bar just before the steel flood doors are closed and locked tight, making the place air-tight and safe from water. The film now focuses on the people trapped in the bar and how they act when they are facing circumstances where they are all facing death in a matter of hours. The majority of the trapped people completely change their normal way of acting and attempt to make amends for the things they regret having done. Billy asks Poppy for her forgiveness and professes his love for her. The two brokers, who have been lifelong enemies, shake hands. An ex-minister converts a crooked politician who had destroyed his home. Stratton''s bartender confesses to him that he has been stealing money from the cash register. Stratton confesses that perhaps he hasn''t been paying his bartender as much as he should have. As everyone begins to realize that their oxygen is running out, they decide to open the flood gates, preferring a quick death to a drawn-out one. When the gates are open, everyone is surprised to find that the sun is shining and they are free from danger. The majority of those that were trapped quickly return to their original traits and old enmities are renewed once again. Billy, however, does not go back on his promise of marrying Poppy and the two are happily united.'
'comedy, western','Windy, a sideshow barker, cheats a group of cowboys out of their pay, but is then robbed himself. When the cowboys discover they have been cheated, they initially decide to hang him, then decide to make him work off his debt. He falls in love with ranch owner Molly, and when he saves her life after she is bitten by a rattlesnake, he wins her heart.[2]'
'romantic comedy','A British ex-Grenadier Guards officer moves to America, but struggles to find work. After he is employed as a chauffeur to a wealthy family, he falls in love with his employer''s daughter.'
'drama','Lee Joyce tells her lover, Howard LeMoyne, that she is actually in love with another man, Kendall James. As soon as her breakup happens, Lee''s younger sister Betty turns up and Kendall becomes infatuated with her instead. In anger, Lee shatters her sister''s romance by revealing her previous affair with Kendall, after which Lee tries to return to Howard.'
'comedy','Unassertive bookkeeper Simon Haldane (Horton) is the butt of everyone''s jokes at work. Co-worker Agatha (Louise Fazenda) is desperately in love with him. One rainy night, Agatha''s mother, with Agatha in tow, visits him at home to insist that he marry her. Outside, two detectives chase a mysterious young woman (Miller), who eludes them by slipping unnoticed into Simon''s house and hiding in a closet. When the detectives enter the premises, Simon manages to get rid of them and Agatha and her mother. Simon discovers the intruder, who calls herself Doris, in her undergarments after she emerges from hiding to dry her clothes in front of a fireplace. Having absolutely no interest in women, he makes flustered attempts to get rid of her. Doris responds by pretending to faint. A doctor (Lloyd Ingraham) is summoned; he insists the woman not be moved for several days. Simon gives her his bed and sleeps in another room. Easter (Louise Beavers), Simon''s maid, shows up the next morning. She hears the sound of a woman''s voice emerging from Simon''s bedroom and assumes that he must have gotten married. When a co-worker telephones to find out why Simon is late for work, Easter answers and passes along the misconception. At the office of the Faulkner Phonograph Company, the rest of the staff, led by obnoxious salesman Bob Wyeth, congratulate him. That night, they invade Simon''s house against his will in party hats with confetti and throw a riotous celebration, during which Agatha gets drunk and pitifully sings "Nobody Cares If I''m Blue." Doris finally gets them to leave. As time goes by, Simon reconsiders his indifference to women. He is therefore crestfallen when Doris leaves one day without warning. Easter tells him she called for a taxi, but went off with Wyeth when he offered a ride to the train station. When Mr. Faulkner (Frank Beal) returns unexpectedly early, he begins a major shakeup at his struggling firm. Simon is summoned for a meeting. Expecting to be fired, he is shocked when it turns out that Faulkner has somehow learned of his ideas for saving the company and is promoting him to general manager, replacing Trundle. Simon soon has the company back on its feet. When Wyeth returns from a business trip, he is unimpressed by Simon''s promotion. Simon, believing Wyeth has stolen Doris''s affections, asserts his authority by punching Wyeth in the face several times. Then Faulkner has another surprise for him. He introduces Simon to his daughter Julia, who turns out to be Doris. Julia explains that they had suspected Trundle of undermining the company, but could not examine the books without alerting him. So she instead examined the ledgers that Simon brought home to work on, which confirmed the sabotage. Faulkner gives Simon a half interest in the company, but is pleased when Simon offers it back in exchange for a delighted Julia.'
'drama, crime','Two detectives, played by John Elliot and Harold Goodwin, board a train in pursuit of a gangster, who is played by Neil Hamilton. Hamilton is travelling to New York to work for Edward G. Robinson, a notorious gangster who owns a nightclub. Hamilton jumps off the train near a bridge crossing and since no trace of him can be found the police believe him to be dead. Goodwin assumes Hamilton''s identity and joins Robinson''s gang but is quickly discovered to be an imposter and shot. Determined to find out who killed her brother, Alice White poses as Hamilton''s widow and attempts to get a job at Robinson''s nightclub. Hamilton eventually shows up and White is almost exposed as an imposter. Hamilton, however, is eventually persuaded by White and he promises not to tell Robinson the truth. White and Hamilton fall in love. During a hold-up, White protects Hamilton by shooting at a cop in the back. Hamilton begins to think of reforming due to White''s influence. White eventually gets Robinson to confess that he shot her brother by pretending to be interested in him. She leaves the phone off the hook while the police listen in on his confession. When the police show up, Robinson realizes what White has done and uses White as a shield against the police but Hamilton manages to save White and Robinson is forced to surrender to the police.'
'drama','Lieutenant Robert Banks (Buddy Rogers), a young American aviator in the Lafayette Escadrille, on leave in Paris, meets Mary Gordon (Jean Arthur), a young American living abroad. Their romance is cut short by his return to the front. In an air battle, Robert brings down and captures von Baden, nicknamed the "Grey Eagle" (Paul Lukas), and takes him to Allied headquarters in Paris, to obtain intelligence on German plans. Mary, ostensibly a spy for the Germans, drugs Robert, who awakens to find that his uniform has been stolen by von Baden. Later, in another air conflict, von Baden is wounded, but shoots down Robert''s aircraft. The German rescues him, however, and takes him to an Allied hospital, assuring him of Mary''s love; his faith in her is restored when Robert learns that Mary is actually an American spy.'
'comedy','Jealousy comes between a young couple of newspaper people when the wife earns more money and becomes more famous than her husband. Especially his alcohol addiction becomes the dividing element, whereas the young Puff Randolph girl chasing him, and her editor falling in love with her are merely elements that challenge their love.'
'drama','At an evening party in New York City, the Towners mourn their failing marriage, then leave separately. The somewhat drunk Jim walks to a bar for some more liquor. Before he arrives, a man is shot to death outside the establishment; those inside hastily carry the body inside and surmise that someone named Tony is responsible. Meanwhile, Fanny is driven home by her lover, David Melbourn. On the way, she breaks up with him, telling him she realizes now that she still loves Jim. However, she plans to leave her husband, thinking she is not good enough for him. Jim next heads to a nightclub to see his lover, star singer Rosie Duggan. He asks her if it is possible for a man to love two women, then remarks that the snow was red outside the bar. After he leaves, her ex-con husband Tony Bruzzi shows up. He wants her to take him back, but she has him thrown out, though she keeps his gun; she guesses from the red snow that Tony killed someone. Later, she takes Jim home. He falls asleep on her chaise longue. Then Tony shows up, jealous and determined to kill Jim. She tells him that Jim is not there, but he does not believe her. When she refuses to open a locked door, they struggle and he accidentally kills her. The next morning, Jim wakes up and finds Rosie''s body. Meanwhile, Tony hides out at Mrs. Dacklehorst''s place, but he is tracked down by Dave the Slapper and his gang; the man Tony shot was part of Dave''s mob. Tony demands Mrs. Dacklehorst deliver or mail a letter to his gang, but she betrays him instead, and he is shot dead. Jim is charged with Rosie''s murder. When Fanny shows up at the police station, Jim tells her to divorce him so she will not get entangled in his troubles, but she refuses to do so. Fortunately, fingerprints on a liquor bottle at Rosie''s place match Tony''s, and Jim is released. The couple reconcile, and Jim promises to stop drinking.'
'drama','The story depicts Hamilton''s (George Arliss) efforts to pass the "Assumption Bill", which required the federal government to assume the debts incurred by the 13 states during the American Revolutionary War, and his agreement to a compromise by passage of the Residence Bill establishing the national capital.[2]'
'comedy','Bill Harper (Rogers) plays an American ambassador. After his arrival in a small country that is besieged by civil unrest, he befriends the young boy (Tad Alexander) who is to be the country''s king.'
'comedy','After they are separated shortly after their marriage, Annabelle doesn''t really know what her husband looks like. When they meet later she finds herself falling in love with him, without realizing that they are already married.'
'drama','Eddie Brand (Eric Linden) is a high school student in New York City. After he loses an oratory contest about the U.S. Constitution, he becomes depressed and leaves his girl friend Mary (Rochelle Hudson) to take up with Flo Carnes (Arline Judge) and her hardcore friends, Maybelle (Roberta Gale), Agnes (Mary Kornman), Nick Crosby (Ben Alexander) and Bennie Gray (Bobby Quirk), in spite of his grandmother''s warnings. He and his new crowd of friends get drunk on gin in jazz clubs and dance halls, and start robbing strangers for cash. Eddie drops out of school and become more and more dependent on liquor. One night, Eddie, needing a drink, shoots an old family friend, Heinrich "Heinie" Krantz (William Orlamond), who has refused to sell him a bottle of booze. When Eddie, Nick and Bennie are arrested for the murder, Nick blurts out the truth on the witness stand, and Eddie is given the death penalty, with Nick and Bennie given life sentences.'
'drama','While at West Point, Bob Denton rebuffs Evelyn Palmer, who shows up later as the wife of his commanding officer in Arizona.'
'drama','An idealistic young medical student named Martin Arrowsmith (Ronald Colman) makes a favorable impression on Dr. Max Gottlieb (A. E. Anson). When Arrowsmith graduates, Gottlieb offers him a position as his research assistant, but the young man reluctantly has to turn him down. He has fallen in love with nurse Leora (Helen Hayes), and the salary is not enough to support the couple. Instead, he marries Leora and sets up his medical practice in her rural home town. One day, he develops a serum to cure a fatal cow disease ravaging the nearby herds. Reinvigorated, he decides to join Gottlieb at the McGurk Institute in New York. Meanwhile, Leora miscarries and, to the couple''s sorrow, is unable to have any more children, so she devotes herself to supporting her husband''s mission. When there is an outbreak of bubonic plague in the West Indies, Gottlieb believes that Arrowsmith''s experience with his cow serum would prove invaluable. Eager to help mankind, Arrowsmith goes to a Caribbean island to work with scientist Gustav Sondelius (Richard Bennett) in his struggle to save the natives. Leora accompanies him, despite his fear for her safety. Sir Robert Fairland (Lumsden Hare) refuses to let Arrowsmith perform an experiment by only treating half of the people with the serum in order to test the effectiveness of the cure. Howard University-educated Dr. Oliver Marchand (Clarence Brooks) offers them the people of his island as test subjects. Among the participants in the experiment is Mrs. Joyce Lanyon (Myrna Loy), a New Yorker stranded on the island who is attracted to Arrowsmith. Sondelius contracts the disease; just before he dies, he pleads with Arrowsmith to save as many lives as possible by abandoning the scientific protocol. The young doctor becomes worried about his wife. He goes to see her, but too late; she too has succumbed to the plague. Arrowsmith then decides to give the serum to all, saving many lives. On Arrowsmith''s return to New York, Dr. Tubbs (Claude King), the head of the McGurk Institute, is eager to bask in his reflected glory. However, when Gottlieb suffers a stroke during the reception in Arrowsmith''s honor, Arrowsmith decides to quit the institute and join his friend and co-worker Terry Wickett (Russell Hopton) in a makeshift lab doing real research.'
'western','In 1849, Joaquin Murietta (Buck Jones) is determined to track down the three men, Black Kelly (Otto Hoffman), Ike Mason (Edward Peil Sr.) and Al Goss (Walter Percival), who lynched his brother. As "The Black Shadow," he robs the rich, gives to the poor, and romances the new school teacher Helen Lake (Dorothy Revier).[2]'
'comedy','Wayne Carter is a New York playboy, who pays no attention to the marital status of his many dalliances. However, there are some women whose attention he attempts to avoid, one such being the married Agatha Carraway. Helene and Lita Andrews are small town girls who have come to the big city in order to find fame and fortune. Helene is much more sensible than her younger sister, Lita, who is a bit flighty. Eventually, Lita believes she has a millionaire interested in her, Carter. When she goes to have dinner at his apartment, an alarmed Helene goes to track her down to prevent anything untoward from occurring. However, upon her arrival, she discovers that Lita has really attracted the attention of Carter''s butler, Rollins, with whom she is having dinner. Carter is entranced with the sensible, earnest Helene. Discovering she is in need of employment, he offers her a job in his office as an executive secretary. She at first refuses, cautious about his intentions, but in need of work, she eventually relents and accepts the position. Their mutual attraction grows, and Carter is seemingly beginning to give up his libidinous liaisons, until one afternoon when Carter asks her over to his apartment, not on a personal level, but to take some dictation. Again leery, she agrees and meets him at his apartment, and all is going well until the flirtatious Agatha shows up at the apartment. When her husband shows up shortly after, and Agatha hides in the bedroom while the two men have a discussion about marital issues, Helene once again becomes disenchanted with Carter, and resigns her position. Realizing that he is truly in love with Helene, Carter is relentless in attempting to convince her of his sincerity, and of his deep feelings for her. Eventually, she comes to believe him, and agrees to meet him at his apartment. Unfortunately, Agatha is also relentless, and shows up once again. This time, when her husband shows up slightly later, he is armed and threatens Carter, since he knows his wife is hiding in the bedroom. To save Carter, Helene, who was with Agatha in the bedroom, exits, and swears that she is the only woman in the apartment. Mollified, Carraway leaves. After Agatha also departs, Carter is relieved and thinks everything is all right, but Helene is upset over the entire episode, and leaves deeply upset. Carter is distraught, thinking he has lost the woman he loves. Helene rebuffs all of his attempts to win her back. Nothing works, until Lita runs off to live in sin with a musical producer, Lee Graham. Carter had introduced the two, in an attempt to further endear himself to Helene, since he found out that Lita dreamed of being a stage performer. Helene is beside herself with worry, since she has no idea on how to find Lita and Graham. She turns to Carter, who tracks them down, and reunites the two sisters. Helene finally understands that Carter is being sincere, and accepts his proposal of marriage.'
'comedy','Ageing English bachelor Sir Basil Winterton (C. Aubrey Smith) suddenly has his hands full when his three grown (illegitimate) children return. Tony (Marion Davies) is a sharp tongued New Yorker, Maria is an aspiring opera singer and Ray Milland is the son. Tony and Basil grow fond of each other, as do Tony and Ashley, but Sir Basil''s Lawyer strikes when Tony learns that she is not really the daughter of Sir Basil. Sir Basil soon learns of the mistake and confronts Tony. She leaves Basil''s estate and on flying back to the United States her plane crashes on take-off as Sir Basil reads a telegram that Tony sent before she boarded the plane. It explained that she loved him very much and she was sorry for what had happened. Luckily Tony has survived the disaster and is carried into Sir Basil''s living room to rest by Ashley. The film ends happily with Sir Basil promising to adopt Tony and Ashley promising to make her his wife.'
'crime','Rich and beautiful Helen King is about to marry Steve Carlyle, a wealthy young professional. Unknown to Helen and her family, Steve is a legal advisor to a megalomaniac gangster Goldie Gorio. Steve wishes to leave the rackets but Goldie reintroduces him to his future father-in-law, a rival gangster where both parties see the marriage as a symbol of peace and an end of violence in their transactions. Steve remains with Goldie and fills in for him to a visit to a rival gangster''s boat where he is ambushed and nearly killed by their machine gun. Helen vows revenge on Goldie.'
'drama','Dorothy Haley (Sally Eilers) and Edna Driggs (Minna Gombell) are store models, first seen in bridal clothes at their job one afternoon. After work Dorothy fends off her boss, who wants to take her for a ride, by claiming to be married to a prizefighter. The girls then go to Coney Island. On the return steamboat trip, the women make a bet about attracting a certain man''s attention, and proceed to annoy him by playing a ukulele. This man is Eddie Collins (James Dunn); after his initial grouchy reaction to the women, he slowly forms a connection with Dorothy and sees her home. Eddie works in a radio shop and dreams of having a shop on his own, for which he has been saving. On a subsequent date, Eddie keeps Dorothy in his apartment past 4 a.m.; she fears the reaction of her abusive elder brother, who has been her guardian. Eddie proposes marriage as a solution and Dorothy joyfully accepts. Her brother calls her a tramp and evicts her from her home. Dorothy suffers some anxiety the next day, when Eddie seems to have disappeared; he then turns up, having made arrangements for a new place to live, and the two are happily married. Dorothy confides to Edna ten weeks later that she is pregnant, but is reluctant to tell Eddie the news when she learns that he is ready to open his new shop, an expensive commitment. Instead she tells Eddie that she''d like to return to work, to which he objects. Wrongly guessing that she wants a larger place to live, Eddie cancels his plans for the shop in favor of a lavish new building and new furnishings, increasing Dorothy''s worries. By the time Eddie finally finds out he is to become a father, the two mutually misunderstand that the other is unhappy about the pregnancy, resulting in a strain on their marriage. The strain intensifies when Eddie stays away from home while earning extra money and arranging for the best possible doctor, all without telling Dorothy. After the child is born, Dorothy plans to leave Eddie; however, before that can happen the misunderstanding is cleared up, with joyful results.'
'drama','Naive Marianne Madison, bored with her routine life, falls for dashing con artist Valentine Corliss, who has come to her small town looking for fresh marks to swindle. He soon charms her into faking her wealthy and prominent father''s name on a letter of endorsement, which he presents to the other local merchants, who willingly give him merchandise. He prepares his escape, but not before conning Marianne into becoming his wife. Following their wedding night in a sleazy hotel, Valentine abandons Marianne. She returns home and begs forgiveness from her jilted fiancé Dick Lindley, but having seen Marianne for who she really is, he informs her that he has fallen in love with her shy younger sister Laura.'
'adventure','The last two surviving members of a French Foreign Legion detachment, who know each other as Smith and Brown, are consigned to a grain pit in the desert to die slowly. As they await death the two soldiers eventually realize that they were childhood friends, John Geste (Ralph Forbes) and Otis Madison (Lester Vail), respectively. Once they recognize one another, they have a series of flashbacks to their boyhood friendship in England. These memories are followed by Otis'' memory of his return to England and discovery that John has joined the French Foreign Legion. While in England, Otis also learns that Isobel Landon (Loretta Young), who he is enamored with, is betrothed to John. Despite his feelings for her, he vows to follow John to Africa and return him to England. He makes arrangements and leaves for the dark continent. Upon his arrival in Africa, Otis, and his detachment, are ordered to garrison a French fort in the desert. As hardships ensue, his fellow legionnaires begin to mutiny. Otis does not participate in the uprising, instead he attempts to get the other soldiers to cease their rebellion. When the uprising is eventually thwarted, the commanders do not believe Otis'' story, and assume that he was part of the rebellion, and send him to a penal detail. While part of that detail, he is again falsely accused, and is thrown into the pit, along with John, which puts them both in the pit where the film begins. Back in the present, as they are about to die, they are miraculously rescued by a passing band of Arabs. Unknown to the two friends is that the Arabs intend to use them as bait to draw their fellow legionnaires into a death trap. Fortunately for the friends, the girlfriend of the Emir, Zuleika (Leni Stengel), also known as "the Angel of Death", is attracted to Otis. Otis uses that attraction and agrees to marry her, after which Zuleika informs him of an impending attack by the Arabs on the nearby fort, and then helps Otis and John to escape. The two legionnaires race to the fort, and help to repel the Arab attack, which earns both of them their freedom. Otis now has to face up to his commitment to Zuleika. However, she has now transferred her affections to Major LeBaudy (Hale Hamilton), which allows Otis to be relieved of his matrimonial duties. Free from any entanglements, the two friends return to England. Once there, John releases Isobel from their betrothal, which clears the way for her and Otis to marry.'
'drama','Mary Linden (Mary Astor) is a receptionist at a paper milling company, who is secretly in love with one of the salesmen, James Duneen (Robert Ames). Her extensive knowledge of the paper industry, the mill and its clients allows her to have input in company operations far outweighing her job title. As the president of the company, Ritter (Charles Sellon), approaches retirement, Mary uses her skill in company politics to enable James to make some important sales coups, after which she begins a fifth-column attempt to get him named as the next president. James, for his part, is grateful to her for her help, but is completely oblivious to her romantic interest in him, preferring more the party girl type. When Ritter does retire, James wins the position, and Mary is promoted to be his personal secretary. Still unaware of her feelings, he hires his latest party girl, Daisy (Edna Murphy), to work in the office, and report to Mary. Mary is upset by this turn of events, but remains faithful to James, assisting him with running the company. In fact, it is her knowledge and acumen which makes the company successful. Mary even spurns the advances of several men, including the wealthy Ronnie Wales (Ricardo Cortez), who, although married, is estranged from his wife and wishes to pursue an affair with Mary. However, when James becomes engaged to the daughter of a wealthy banker, Ellen May Robinson (Catherine Dale Owen), that is the straw which breaks Mary''s resolve. She resigns from the company, and eventually agrees to go away with Ronnie for an assignation in Atlantic City. The paper mill suffers terribly from a lack of good management, since most of James'' success was due to Mary''s guidance. James tracks her down before she can give in to the advances of Ronnie, and begs Mary to return. She is reluctant, until she discovers that James has broken off his engagement with Ellen, and upon her return to the company she is not only met with a job offer, but also a marriage proposal from him.'
'war','On the Western Front during World War I, an American battalion advances to the French town of Nevremont, where it is outflanked. Sergeant Bill Thatcher (Bill Boyd) is left in charge of a small rear guard of four men to cover the battalion''s retreat before it is cut off. During heavy shelling, Bill tries to comfort his men after each is wounded. The first, "Bud" (Russell Gleason), relates his story of how he joined the military, leaving the family farm to enlist, despite his mother''s pleas for him not to become involved in foreign conflicts. As he finishes his story, he dies. The second doughboy, Lew Cavanaugh (Lew Cody), is a New York playboy who used enlistment as a way to have a final night of pleasure with one of his conquests, never realizing that he would die on a French battlefield. The third American, the unsoldierly Jim Mobley (James Gleason), is not as badly wounded as the other two soldiers and tells his story of his wife''s displeasure after he announces his intention to enlist and his own consternation at his inability explain to her why. Thatcher then relates his own story, where he was engaged to a German immigrant back in the United States but did not wed her due to their differences over the "Great War". Shortly after, the Germans attack again, during which Bill and Jim defend their position and blow up a bridge to cover the retreat of their battalion, but are badly wounded. A German soldier tries to bayonet the unconscious Bill but is stopped by another soldier. Both are captured and sent to a German hospital, where Bill is discovered by his erstwhile fiancé, Katherine (Lissi Arna). She saves his life by persuading the German doctor to allow Bill, slowly bleeding to death but not allowed a transfusion because too many German patients are in need of one, to be transfused with her blood. After the armistice, with Bill recovered and decorated along with Jim for the defense of Nevremont, they celebrate the end of the fighting with Katherine.'
'comedy','A rash go-getter is duped by would-be swindlers into buying swamp land which turns out to be worth a fortune.'
'drama, crime','Movie star Shelah Fayne is making a picture on location in Honolulu, Hawaii. She summons mystic adviser Tarneverro from Hollywood to help her decide whether to marry wealthy Alan Jaynes, a man she has only known for a week. Her friend Julie O''Neil worries, however, that the famous psychic has too much influence over her. Meanwhile, Julie has fallen in love herself with local publicity director Jimmy Bradshaw. Honolulu Police Inspector Chan pretends to be a humble merchant, but Tarneverro sees through his impersonation. Chan mentions to him the yet unsolved murder of film star Denny Mayo, committed years before. Then Jimmy finds Shelah''s body; she has been murdered. Julie makes him remove Shelah''s ring before calling for the police. Chan investigates. He invites Tarneverro to assist him. Tarneverro reveals that Shelah told him she was in love with Denny and was responsible for his death, but kept quiet to protect her career. The suspects are many, but after various startling revelations, Chan eventually identifies the killer and the connection to Mayo''s death.'
'comedy','Bert Harris works for a hotel as a bellboy. One day, he meets Anne Roberts, who signs up as a chambermaid. He takes a fancy to her and lets her in on his racket, conning people out of money. They arrange for married hotel guest A. Rupert Johnson Jr. to be caught in a compromising position with Anne and get $5000 to keep a (fake) policeman from taking him to jail. From there, they leave town and embark on ever grander crooked schemes. Anne falls in love with Bert, but he does not realize it until it is too late. By the time he proposes to her, she has transferred her affections to the respectable Joe Reynolds and marries him. Bert travels around Europe for a year. When he returns to the United States, he is no longer interested in crime. However, Anne tracks him down and asks him for $30,000. It turns out that Joe has embezzled that amount from his employer. Bert does not have that much, but he comes up with a plan. He gets Joe to give the keys to the office and the combination of the company safe. He will break into the safe and steal what is left. Everyone will assume that he also took the $30,000 in negotiable bonds. However, Joe double crosses him; he has the police waiting. Bert manages to speed away in his car, but is shot and captured. When Anne comes to see him in his cell, she informs him that she found out what Joe did. Bert persuades her not to reveal everything to the police, telling her it would not help him anyway. She vows to be waiting for him after he serves his sentence, cheering him up.'
'action','In World War I, American pilots Mal Andrews (Charles Farrell), Tap Johnson (Don Dillaway) and Jim Watson (Humphrey Bogart) enrol in a Royal Air Force squadron. Mal and Tap are worried that their friend Jim is cheating on his new bride. When General Trafford Jones (Ian MacLaren ) arrives to evaluate the squadron, he criticizes its lack of discipline and poor effort in aerial battles. Consequently, the general orders Watson to undertake a near-suicidal mission to shoot down an enemy balloon for his first flight with the squadron. Secretly, Mal joins him aboard the aircraft and when Jim is killed in the air battle, his friend manages to complete the mission and make it look like the dead pilot was a hero. At the base, Jim''s wife Carla (Elissa Landi) is mistaken for "Pom Pom," his mistress. Mal falls in love with Carla and when Alice Lester (Myrna Loy), the real "Pom Pom", appears, she finds out that Tap is about to fly a mission. Lester is a German spy whose information sent to the enemy, results in Tap being killed. When Mal realizes that Carla is Jim''s widow and not his mistress, he sets off on another mission, with the hope that he will return to his true love.'
'western','Captain Wilks (F.R. Smith) of the Texas Rangers orders Jim Houston (Buck Jones) and his crew, Thunder Rogers (Frank Rice) and Jim''s brother Bob (Don Chapman), to go to Eureka, Texas to break up the Shag Smith (Jim Mason) gang.[2]'
'drama','Doris Kendall (Constance Bennett) is an American nurse working in London during World War I. During an air raid, she meets a young American Aviator, Major Barry Craig, who is enjoying a brief leave from his duties. The two hit it off and fall in love. They plan to marry after the war, but for the moment, they simply enjoy each other''s company. After a short while, Craig has to return to the front. It is not long before Doris receives notice that her lover has been shot down behind enemy lines and is presumed dead. Disconsolate, she turns to a long-time friend and admirer, Sir Wilfred Drake (Paul Cavanagh). Soon it is apparent that the nights she spent with Craig are more than a memory, as she is pregnant with his child. On Armistice Day Drake proposes to Doris, who at first refuses, but he eventually convinces her that it will be best for both her and the baby. They all seem happy for a time after she has the baby. The child will be the official heir to the Drake estate, and the couple get along quite well. That is, until Craig re-appears. When she finds out, she is torn by her marriage to Drake versus her love for Craig. Eventually, she can''t help herself and goes to see Craig. When Drake discovers that not only did Doris go to see Craig but that she is still in love with him, he divorces her and takes custody of their son. But she still does not return to Craig, hoping that she will at some point be reunited with her child. Two years later, Doris is still distraught over the way things have turned out. She has been forbidden to see her son during this time, but finally gets permission from Drake. However, when she arrives, she discovers that her son has died. Suicidal, she begins to wander the streets, until she is found by Craig, who is still in love with her, and whom she finally agrees to marry.'
'drama','Raised in poverty by a never-married mother, Stephanie Dale resents her mother''s working-class sensibilities. Dreaming of a rich lifestyle Stephanie gets a job modeling as a modiste shop. Executive David Meyer notices her and is immediately attracted to her. One day Stephanie returns home to find that her mother has died. She moves out and finds an apartment in a good location for meeting celebrities. David and Stephanie get involved and his wealth allows her to indulge in luxuries. They share an interest in books, but she''s put off by his age, clothes, and manners. Young, handsome Nick Amory is also interested in Stephanie, but she prefers David''s wealth and interests. One day David notices a photograph of Stephanie''s mother and realizes that he is her father--but keeps this information secret as he helps his daughter meet wealthy socialites. At one of the many parties she attends, she meets Charles Carter Jr., immediately falls in love, and tells David she plans to marry Charles. When Nick finally gets a raise he proposes to Stephanie, but she rejects him. All is going well as Stephanie and Charles plan their wedding--until Charles discovers that Stephanie''s parents were never married. He promptly cancels the wedding. This makes Stephanie realize how shallow society people truly are. One day she receives a book from David and visits him to apologize for her past regrettable behavior. While she is browsing through his library, she discovers that Nick has been waiting there to see her. They reconcile and Stephanie finally learns that David is her father. The film ends with David arranging his daughter''s wedding to Nick.[2]'
'western','Dale (Buck Jones) and sidekick ''Swede'' (John Oscar) break up a stage robbery only to be arrested for the robbery. Escaping to a new town they make an enemy of Moore (Albert J. Smith).[2]'
'comedy','Brown plays Ossie, a New York City playboy sent to California to straighten himself out. He and his cousin, while driving west, pay too much attention to a sedan full of college girls and rear end a car driven by Pancho Arango (Bela Lugosi). The cousins make it to Hollywood where Brown falls in love with Lugosi''s daughter.'
'drama','Ambrose Applejohn lives in an extravagant old mansion with his ward, played by Poppy Faire, and his elderly aunt. Poppy is in love with Applejohn but he doesn''t realize it and treats her like a child. Applejohn is bored with his sheltered and mundane live and craves excitement. He plans to sell the family mansion and use the money to travel around the world on a quest for adventure and excitement. Aunt Agatha is shocked when she finds out about her nephew''s plans while Poppy supports him. Applejohn, however, soon finds unexpected adventure, danger, mystery and excitement right in his own house. On a dark and stormy night, a mysterious woman, Madame Anna Valeska, knocks on the door, seeking shelter from the storm and from a violent man, Ivan Borolsky, who is apparently pursuing her. As a matter of fact, the two are a pair of thieves seeking a treasure which is hidden in the Applejohn home. This treasure was hidden in the house by a pirate ancestor, known as Captain Applejack. Ivan Borolsky shows up at the house but, eventually, Applejohn manages to get Borolsky and Valeska out of the house. Applejohn falls asleep and dreams of his pirate ancestor, of his ship, and of his conquest of a pretty woman, who is at first resistant, but in the end completely surrenders to him. When he awakes he finds that a parchment really exists in the house and that his visitors are really thieves and are seeking a hidden treasure. He races to find the treasures indicated on the parchment before the thieves can find it themselves. In the end he put the villains to rout, finds the treasure and discovers that he also loves Poppy. The film is filled with pre-code material, especially during the pirate dream sequence. During that sequence, Captain Applejack brazenly forces a woman to submit to his sexual advances and actually grabs her breasts.[citation needed]'
'comedy','Madelynne Cabrone is the wife of gangster Joe Cabrone. She is having an affair, and her husband finds out about it and tracks her to a roadhouse, intent on killing her lover. She escapes in her car, but when it breaks down, she takes to the road, where she is picked up by the unwitting Sam Harris. Joe catches up to them, and believes Sam to be the man Madelynne is having an affair with. He is about to move in to kill him, when Sam is stopped for speeding. When Madelynne tells her story, it is printed in the papers, and Sam becomes something of a hero for saving her. Joe vows to kill Sam within twenty-four hours. T. McGillicuddy Hungerford, a wealthy businessman hears of Sam''s heroism and offers to give Sam a huge order. Thinking that the order is dependent on him playing the hero, Sam keeps up with the pretense, although he is scared to death. A rival gangster, Tobey Moran, gives Sam two bodyguards to protect him from Cabrone. As part of Cabrone''s plan to kill Sam, he sends him two tickets to a masquerade party at a local speakeasy. McGillicuddy, known as "Mac" wants Sam to go to the masquerade with him and two women. Since all wear masks, no one knows that one of the women is Madelynne. Sam''s wife, Lena, believes that he is cheating on her, and also goes to the masquerade. Cabrone and his men show up as well, dressed as policemen. They abscond with Sam and Mac, taking them back to their hideout. Moran''s men follow and a gunfight ensues where Cabrone and his gang are wiped out. The police arrive and declare Sam and Mac to be heroes, whereafter Mac awards the contract to Sam, and Lena understands the truth about Sam and Madelynne and forgives him.'
'comedy','Tommy Tanner (Wheeler) and Egbert G. Higginbotham (Woolsey) are two vaudevillians who were kicked out of the last town they performed in. After fleeing to the town of Lockville, the duo befriend elderly widow Mother Talley (Lucy Beaumont). Mother is upset because she is unable to get customers into her drug store. In addition, Mother owes a payment on a bank note to Harry Watters (Jason Robards). Tommy and Egbert decide to turn Mother''s drugstore into a money-making venture, even producing their own afternoon radio program right in the store. Harry, who wants to buy the store as part of a bootlegging operation, attempts to sell the duo an alcohol-laced drink, referring to it as "lemon-syrup". The "syrup" gains praise from everybody in town, until the police show up to close down the operation. Tommy and Egbert are suspicious of Harry, and it is up to them to find Harry, clear their name, and save Mother''s store.'
'drama','Andy "Champ" Purcell (Wallace Beery) is the former world heavyweight champion, now down on his luck and living in squalid conditions with his eight-year-old son "Dink" in Tijuana, Mexico. Champ attempts to train and to convince promoters to set up a fight for him, but his efforts are consistently stymied by his alcoholism. Dink is repeatedly disappointed and let down by his father''s irresponsible actions and frequent broken promises to quit drinking, but his utter devotion to his father nonetheless never wavers. In addition to his drinking problem, Champ is also a compulsive gambler, another vice which he repeatedly promises Dink he will surrender (but never does). After a winning streak, he fulfills a previous promise to buy Dink a horse, whom they subsequently name "Little Champ" and decide to enter into a race. At the track, Dink happens across a woman who, unknown to either of them, is actually his mother Linda. She is now remarried to Tony, a wealthy man who owns one of the other horses in the race. Linda and Tony observe Dink and Champ together and realize that Dink is her son. Champ allows Linda to see Dink, who accepts that she is his mother. But Dink feels no emotion toward her, as she has never been part of his life. Linda resolves to remove Dink from the negative atmosphere in which he''s growing up and have him live with her family. Catching Champ during an all-night gambling binge, Tony asks him to turn Dink over so that Tony and Linda can put Dink into school. Champ refuses. As the exhausted Dink sleeps on a nearby table, Tony bluntly observes that Champ is not a good father. The night of gambling ends with Champ having lost Little Champ, which devastates Dink. Champ asks Linda for enough money to buy the horse back, and she gives it to him. But before he can buy the horse back, he starts gambling again and loses the money Linda loaned him. He also winds up in jail, breaking Dink''s heart once more. Ashamed of his actions and with his spirit broken, Champ finally agrees to send an unwilling Dink to live with Tony and Linda. On the train ride home, Tony and Linda try their best to welcome Dink into their family. Dink does not dislike them, but he is consumed only by thoughts of his father. He runs away back to Tijuana, where he finds that Champ has a fight scheduled with the Mexican heavyweight champion. When he sees Dink, Champ immediately returns to good spirits. He trains hard for the fight and, for the first time, really does stay away from drinking and gambling. Champ is determined to win the fight, make Dink proud of him, and use his prize money to buy back Little Champ. Tony and Linda attend the fight, bringing genuine best wishes and assurances that they will make no further efforts to separate Dink from Champ. The match is brutal, and Champ is seriously injured. Dink and the others in his corner urge him to throw in the towel, but Champ refuses to allow that. He musters a last burst of energy, and knocks out his opponent. After the fight, he triumphantly presents Little Champ to Dink. But after witnessing his son''s overjoyed reaction, Champ collapses. Champ is brought into his dressing room, where a doctor determines that his injuries are mortal. Champ urges Dink to cheer up and then dies, leaving Dink inconsolable. Despite the best efforts of all of the men and boys in the room, who one by one attempt to calm him, Dink continually wails, "I want the Champ!" Finally, Dink spots Linda enter the room. Dink looks at her, cries out, "Mother!" and runs into her arms. She picks him up and he sobs, "The Champ is dead, mama." She turns and carries him out of the room as he buries his face in her shoulder, crying.'
'drama','During World War I, Jack (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.) and Tom Ingleside (Anthony Bushell) are two British brother officers who happen who fall in love with the same girl Molly Prescott (Rose Hobart) while on furlough, resulting in dissention at the Front.[3]'
'mystery','Charlie Chan tries to solve the murder of a wealthy American found dead in a London hotel room. Settings include London, Nice, France, San Remo, Honolulu and Hong Kong.'
'drama','Elsa Carlyle (Tallulah Bankhead), in contrast to her charming personality and loving relationship with her indulgent husband, Jeffrey (Harvey Stephens), is a compulsive gambler and spendthrift who is overly concerned with social standing and appearances. Jeffrey tries to convince Elsa to avoid spending while he makes investments in an effort to provide them with enough wealth to live comfortably for the rest of their lives, but she had impulsively placed a large bet and immediately is $10,000 in debt. Later, after helping raise money for a charitable cause, she steals this money and invests it in a stock scheme, and promptly loses it as well when the stock tanks. Hardy Livingston (Irving Pichel), a wealthy lady''s man, has his eye on Elsa and finds his chance to trap her into an adulterous affair by giving her the money she needs to repay the charity money. The next day Jeffrey informs her his investments have paid off and they are now fabulously wealthy. She attempts to repay the money she had borrowed from Livingston, however he wants sexual favors instead. Elsa says she would rather commit suicide; Livingston hands her a pistol and invites her to do so and when she does not, he attempts to rape her and she responds by taking the pistol and shooting him. A suspicious Jeffrey has followed her and takes the blame for the shooting. As Jeffrey is on trial, Livingstone claims Jeffrey had tried to cheat him out of a debt and then shot him. To protect Elsa, Jeffrey refuses to deny this, and so Elsa stops the trial by shouting out the truth and showing the court the brand Livingstone had placed on her. The judge drops the charges against Jeffrey, Elsa promises again to stop gambling and the film ends.'
'musical','One day, Molly Standing (Margaret Schilling) is picking apples in her father''s apple orchard in California, with her friend Gertie (Marion Byron), when they meet two boys, Tommy Melville (Paul Gregory) and Gus Schultz (Tom Patricola). Molly falls in love with Tommy while Gertie falls in love with Gus. They plan a double wedding. Gerald Winters and his mother, who are wealthy art patrons, hear Molly singing, and, at Gerald''s suggestion, since he is very attracted to her, they sponsor her to study in Italy. Molly is reluctant to go but finally accepts when she discovers her father is in need of money. She leaves on the day that Tommy had hoped would be their wedding day. He says goodbye to her before attending Gertie and Gus''s wedding ceremony. Molly becomes a success in Rome. She returns to the United States to sing at the Metropolitan Opera House in New York City, where she is again a great success. After the performance, Tommy attends the party which has been given by Gerald and his mother. Molly asks Tommy to sing, but her society friends do not think much of his singing. Realizing that Molly now lives in a world far apart from his, Tommy breaks off his engagement and returns to the orchards. Molly stays in New York for two years and then moves on to San Francisco for a concert stop. Although she is supposed to marry Gerald soon, she is unhappy. She goes to her father''s orchards to visit her old friend Gertie, to see how things are going with her. She happens to run into Tommy, and they rekindle their love and are married. Before they leave on their honeymoon, the doctor (Charles Winniger) informs Molly''s manager and Tommy that Schilling has lost her voice and will never sing again, except perhaps, a lullaby.'
'drama, western','The Oklahoma land rush of 1889 prompts thousands to travel to the Oklahoma Territory to grab free government land; Yancey Cravat (Richard Dix), his young bride, Sabra (Irene Dunne) and their son, Cim, cross the border from Kansas to join the throngs. In the ensuing race, Yancey is outwitted by a young prostitute, Dixie Lee (Estelle Taylor), who takes the prime piece of real estate, the Bear Creek claim, that Yancey had targeted for himself. His plans for establishing a ranch thwarted, Yancey moves into the town of Osage, a boomer town, where he confronts and kills Lon Yountis (Stanley Fields), an outlaw who had killed the prior publisher of the local newspaper. Having a background in publishing himself, Yancey establishes the Osage Wigwam, a weekly newspaper, to help turn the frontier camp into a respectable town. After the birth of their daughter, Donna, a gang of outlaws threatens Osage, led by "The Kid" (William Collier Jr.), who happens to be an old acquaintance of Yancey''s. To save the town, Yancey faces and kills The Kid. Beset by guilt over his killing of The Kid, when another land rush appears, Yancey leaves Sabra and his children to participate in settling the Cherokee Strip. After his departure, Sabra takes over the publication of the Osage Wigwam, and raises her children until Yancey returns five years later, just in time to represent Dixie Lee, who had been charged with being a public nuisance, and win her acquittal. Osage continues to grow, as does the Territory of Oklahoma, which gains statehood in 1907 and benefits from the early oil boom of the 1900s, including the Native American tribes, that Yancey supports, through editorials in his newspaper, after which Yancey once again disappears from Osage for several years. At the time, Sabra is vehemently anti-Native American, despite her son''s involvement with an Indian woman. Years later, when Sabra becomes the first female congresswoman from the state of Oklahoma, she lauds the virtues of her then Indian daughter-in-law. Sabra and Yancey are reunited one final time when she rushes to his side after he has rescued numerous oil drillers from a devastating explosion. He dies in her arms.'
'comedy, drama','Citizens and dignitaries are assembled for the unveiling of a new monument to "Peace and Prosperity". After droning speeches the veil is lifted to reveal the Little Tramp asleep in the lap of one of the sculpted figures. After several minutes of slapstick he manages to escape the assembly''s wrath to perambulate the city. He rebukes two newsboys who taunt him for his shabbiness, and while coyly admiring a nude statue has a near-fatal encounter with a sidewalk elevator. The Tramp encounters the beautiful flower girl on a street-corner and in the course of buying a flower realizes she is blind; he is instantly smitten. Through an aural coincidence the girl mistakes her customer for the wealthy owner of a chauffeured automobile. That evening the Tramp saves a drunken millionaire from suicide. The millionaire takes his new best friend back to his mansion for champagne, then (after another abortive suicide attempt) out for a night on the town. After helping the millionaire home the next morning, he sees the flower girl en route to her street-corner. The Tramp gets some money from the millionaire and catches up to the girl; he buys all her flowers and drives her home in the millionaire''s car. After the Tramp leaves, the flower girl tells her grandmother (Florence Lee) about her kind and wealthy friend. Meanwhile the Tramp returns to the mansion, where the millionaire – now sober – does not remember him and has the butler throw him out. Later that day, the millionaire is once more intoxicated and, seeing the Tramp on the street, invites him home for a lavish party. The next morning history repeats itself: the millionaire is again sober and the Tramp is again out on his ear. Finding that the girl is not at her usual street-corner, the Tramp goes to her apartment, where through the window he hears a doctor tell the grandmother that the girl is very ill: "She has a fever and needs careful attention." Determined to help, the Tramp takes a job as a street sweeper. On his lunch break he brings the girl groceries while her grandmother is out selling flowers. To entertain her he reads a newspaper aloud; in it is a story about a Viennese doctor''s blindness cure. "Wonderful, then I''ll be able to see you," says the girl – and the Tramp is struck by what may happen if she were to gain her sight and discover that he is not the wealthy man she imagines. He also finds an eviction notice the girl''s grandmother has hidden. As he leaves, he promises the girl that he will pay the rent. The Tramp returns to work to find himself fired – he has been late once too often. A boxer convinces him to fight in a fake bout; they will "go easy" on each other and split the prize money. But the boxer flees after learning he is about to be arrested; his place is taken by a no-nonsense fighter, who knocks the Tramp out despite the Tramp''s creative and nimble efforts to keep out of reach. The Tramp encounters the drunken millionaire a third time and is again invited to the mansion. The Tramp relates the girl''s plight and the millionaire gives him money for her operation. Two burglars knock the millionaire out and take the rest of his money. The burglars flee before the arrival of the police, who find the Tramp with the money the millionaire gave him; because of the knock on his head the millionaire does not remember giving it. The Tramp evades the police long enough to get the money to the girl, telling her he will be going away for a time, but in due course he is apprehended and imprisoned. Months later the Tramp is released. He goes to the girl''s customary street corner but she is not there. We learn that the girl – her sight restored – now has a successful flower shop with her grandmother. But she has not forgotten her mysterious benefactor, whom she imagines to be rich and handsome: when an elegant man enters the shop she wonders for a moment if "he" has returned. The Tramp happens by the shop, where the girl is arranging flowers in the window. He stoops to retrieve a blossom discarded in the gutter. After a brief skirmish with his old nemeses, the newsboys, he turns to the shop''s window where he suddenly sees the girl, who has been watching him without (of course) knowing who he is. At the sight of her he is frozen for a few seconds, then breaks into a broad smile. The girl is flattered and giggles to her employee: "I''ve made a conquest!" Via pantomime through the glass, she kindly offers him a fresh flower (to replace the crushed one he took from the gutter) and a coin. Suddenly embarrassed, the Tramp starts to shuffle away, but the girl steps to the shop door and again offers the flower, which he shyly accepts. She takes hold of his hand and presses the coin into it. Abruptly she stops; her smile turns to a look of puzzlement. She runs her fingers along his arm, his shoulder, his lapels, then catches her breath: "You?" The Tramp nods with an uncertain smile and asks, "You can see now?" The girl replies, "Yes, I can see now" and tearfully pulls his hand to her bosom. The uncertainty on the Tramp''s face turns to joy as the film fades to black.'
'drama, crime','Nan Cooley (Sylvia Sidney), the daughter of racketeer Pop Cooley (Guy Kibbee), is in love with The Kid (Gary Cooper), a shooting gallery showman. Cooley tries to urge him to join the gang, in order to earn enough money to support her in the lifestyle she is accustomed to, but The Kid refuses. Soon her father kills bootlegging chief Blackie (Stanley Fields), at the urging of Big Fella Maskal (Paul Lukas), because Blackie was against Maskal''s involvement with Blackie''s gun moll Aggie (Wynne Gibson). After Pop shoots Blackie, he passes the gun to Nan, thus implicating her in the murder. She naïvely takes the rap, believing the mob will arrange for her acquittal, but is sent to prison. Pop Cooley tries to convince The Kid to join the gang to free Nan, and he does so out of love for her. However, her attitude had changed since she was railroaded to prison. When The Kid visits Nan in prison in a fur coat, she becomes terrified of his involvement with Pop''s gang after witnessing a fellow inmate''s mobster boyfriend being gunned down outside the prison gate. When Nan is released, having served her term, she wants nothing more to do with the mob. She tries to persuade The Kid to quit the gang, but he refuses. Things go downhill from there. She finds that her father is unrepentant and involved with a loose, gold-digging woman named Pansy (Betty Sinclair). Maskal soon takes a strong liking to Nan and throws her a homecoming party, forcing her to dance with him all evening. When The Kid finally asserts his claim over Nan, Maskal threatens him, then later sends his thugs to kill him, but The Kid successfully disarms them, then goes after Maskal. Terrified her lover will be killed, Nan goes to Maskal to warn him and offers herself to him in exchange for The Kid''s life. Aggie, now Maskal''s mistress, shoots him with Nan''s gun after he leaves her for Nan, and Nan is accused of murder. The Kid then names himself mob chief and escapes with Nan in a car with three of Maskal''s men, but they aim to kill him. The Kid and Nan are then taken "for a ride" by rival thugs. They race a train and maintain high speeds. Nan pulls a gun on the men and disarms them. Dropping the thugs off with "no hard feelings", The Kid tells them he has quit the beer business, and he and Nan drive off.'
'drama','Valerie West is a young American expatriate living with her wealthy lover, Dick Carmedon, in Paris. Tired of the relationship, she moves out, after which she meets struggling American artist John Neville. She begins posing nude for him. At first the relationship is purely business, but the two soon fall in love, and she moves in with him. The two begin to live an idyllic life, despite Carmedon''s attempts to get Valerie back. Unbeknownst to Valerie, Neville is a member of a wealthy, socially prominent family from Tarrytown, New York. Sam, a friend of Neville''s, tells him about Valerie''s past relationship with Carmedon. Valerie confirms it is true, but states that she left Carmedon before she met Neville. Disillusioned, Neville changes his mind about proposing to her. Valerie calls him a hypocrite and breaks up with him. Later, Neville runs into Valerie at a nightclub, where she is out with Querido. Neville leaves in disgust. Valerie follows, jumping into his taxi and going home with him. Very soon, he proposes marriage. She asks him to wait, wanting to make sure that their feelings for one another are for real before making what she hopes will be a life-long commitment. When Clare Collins, Neville''s sister, hears about the situation from friends returning from Europe, she informs Neville that their father is very ill (he only has a cough) and insists that he return home. Neville brings Valerie with him to the family estate. Clare throws a party on the family yacht, to which she invites Carmedon and an old girlfriend of Neville''s, Stephanie Brown. Neville''s father tells Valerie he approves of her; he can see that his son is happy and more confident. Fed up with Clare''s obvious attempts to split up the couple, Valerie turns in for the night. A drunk Carmedon barges into her stateroom, but she pushes him out, in full view of Clare. Neville helps Carmedon to his room and, behind closed doors, punches him. Then, he informs Valerie that they are going to find a justice of the peace to marry them.'
'drama','The intimate diary of Patricia Harper tells the story of her four years at co-educational Stafford College. Attracting the attentions of Dan Carter and Hal Evans she falls in love with Dan only to be accused by her fellow student Peggy Wilson of stealing him from her. Consequently, Pat decides not to see Dan again and he is persuaded by Peggy, in an effort to regain his affection, to take her out in Hal''s car. On an ''out of bounds'' road the car knocks down a policeman and runs into a ditch but the pair escape unrecognised. Peggy''s vanity case is found in the car, however, and she is expelled from the College without divulging the identity of her companion. During the Christmas holidays Hal and Pat join a party of students, which includes Dan, on a mountain ski-ing expedition. Dan manages to separate Pat from the others and takes her to a forest ranger''s hut where, finding themselves alone, they make love. Hal; jealous and angry with Dan, reveals to the Dean that Dan was in his car with Peggy and Dan, too, is expelled. He leaves without saying goodbye to Pat. When Peggy visits the College to collect personal belongings Pat confides that she is pregnant. Peggy advises her to marry Hal but Pat refuses to deceive him and writes a letter of explanation which Peggy promises to deliver. Pat and Hal are married but it is not until three years later that Pat discovers that Peggy did not deliver her letter. On that same day Dan returns from South America and Hal, without revealing to whom he is married, takes Dan home to dinner. Dan tells Hal that he betrayed Pat but that he loves her and wants to marry her. When Pat returns home and finds that Hall now knows the truth about the child there is a violent quarrel and she confesses that she still loves Dan. Hal agrees to a divorce so that the parents of the child he thought was his can be married.[3]'
'drama','In prohibition-era Manhattan, shopkeeper Mary Brown loses Aubrey, her childhood sweetheart, when he marries a rich woman. Reporter Steve "Rollo" Porter has also lost his childhood sweetheart, Elaine, who has married some one else. Mary and Steve become friends and make a marriage of convenience based on a shared sense of whimsical humor as well as their mutual losses. When their old loves re-enter their lives, a few years later, Mary and Steve must decide what is really important to them.'
'crime','College football hero John Hawks (Morris) lets himself be goaded by wealthy socialite Alison Corning (Loyd/Todd) into forgoing a job coaching the college team to be "a real man, and make real money" in the big city with her father, Stephen Corning (Emmett Corrigan), on Wall Street. He soon has more than he can stomach, making money by bilking the poor out of their meager savings with junk bonds. Mr. Corning tells John he doesn''t have what it takes to succeed in the brutal world of share trading. John replies he will seek a new line of work where he will not go after elderly widows'' savings. John decides to go after those who deserve to lose their money: bootleggers. He gets inside information on Big John''s (Fred Kohler) rum-running operation from Slim (Ned Sparks) through his gun moll, Sophie. Sophie taps out the information in Morse code with her typewriter to a confederate who informs John of alcohol shipments. Hawks is a modern pirate. With his friend, ''Chub'' (Frank McHugh), he captains the Corsair, a gunboat, which preys on bootleggers and then resells the cargo to their wealthy backers. He only forgot two things: that in the cutthroat world of junk bonds and margin calls, they don’t use real knives, machine guns, and bombs, like the gangsters; and the girl hiding in the hold.'
'comedy','Wendell Graham (Bert Wheeler), while a millionaire through inheritance, is incredibly irresponsible. On a trans-Atlantic crossing, he meets the lovely Betty Harrington (Dorothy Lee), and her stuffy, over-protective aunt, Minnie Van Varden (Edna May Oliver). Wendell is definitely interested, and his interest is reciprocated by Betty; however Aunt Minnie takes an instant dislike to the young man. On the same ship are several dissidents who are seeking financial support for their revolution back home in the fictional country of El Dorania. Wendell believes that if he offers them financial support in their revolutionary pursuits, this will enhance his position with Aunt Minnie, who owns a large estate in El Dorania, and has been vocal about her displeasure with the current monarch. Wendell agrees to furnish the revolutionaries with $100,000 to further their cause. Meanwhile, back in El Dorania, Zander Ulysses Parkhurst (Robert Woolsey), better known by his acronym, Zup, is a casino owner. One night he believes he has hit the jackpot when he wins the crown of the country in a crap game with King Oscar (Harvey Clark), the owner of which becomes king of the country. Unbeknownst to Zup, Oscar has deliberately lost the crown, since he realizes that whoever the king is targeted for death. After he is crowned king, Zup learns from Queen Carlotta (Leni Stengel) that a king''s reign in El Dorania has averaged a single month over the past year, after which they are assassinated. Wendell is told by the revolutionaries as they near El Dorania, that after they overthrow the current monarch, they intend to make him their king. This sits well with Wendell, who feels that this will prove his worth to Aunt Minnie. When he arrives in the country, he realizes that the current monarch is his old friend from Brooklyn, Zup. Their celebratory reunion is short-lived when Wendell realizes that he needs to kill Zup in order to assume the throne. Wendell discovers that the assassinations are the brainchild of General Bogardus (Stanley Fields), who agrees to allow Zup to be killed in the modern fashion, with bombs dropped from airplanes. Wendell arranges for all the bombs to be disarmed, and lets Zup know there is nothing to fear. The day of assassination arrives during a national celebration, but Zup is unafraid, since he received the knowledge from Wendell that the bombs won''t blow up. However, as the bomb''s begin to fall, they explode, since they have been re-armed, without the knowledge of Wendell. The two friends flee for their lives, and as they do, fortune shines on them as one of the bombs lands over an oil deposit, which begins to gush forth. The country, now rich, is no longer interested in revolution. Zup remains king, and Wendell gets to marry Betty, much to the chagrin of Aunt Millie.'
'drama, crime','Six years of stress and hard labor working in the prison jute mill has taken its toll on young Robert Graham. The penitentiary''s resident doctor and psychiatrist recommends that Warden Brady see him and proposes that he offer him a drastic change of environment and duties before his psychological damages become irreversible. When the warden realizes who the inmate is, or rather was, and recalls that it was he that helped put him behind bars (as with many of the prisoners), he agrees to give him a chance and offers him a job as his valet. Graham enjoys his new employment, especially since he is frequently in the company of the warden''s pretty young daughter, Mary. He improves in general character and demeanor and regains his morale. Meanwhile, one of Graham''s cellmates tries to escape at night with two other prisoners. One turns out to be a stool pigeon, breaking the Prisoner''s code of silence and lures the men into a death trap. The guards brutally shoot down and kill Graham''s cellmate. Ned Galloway, Graham''s other cellmate, vows to avenge this death and, more importantly, punish the violator of the unwritten code. He develops an elaborate plan secretly to murder the culprit and carefully warns Graham to stay away from the man. Ill-fated Graham, of course, walks in on the crime no one was supposed to witness. Upon finding Graham with the dead body, the perspicacious warden again knows that Graham is not the murderer. He does however clearly see that Graham knows who committed the crime. Promising him a speedy parole, though his sincerity is somewhat doubtful, the warden pushes Graham to reveal the name of the killer. He is morally torn. Still an inmate, Graham cannot bring himself to go against the Prisoner''s Code and remains loyal to Galloway and the other inmates, who in this case represent the Hawksian group, an ever-present theme in the director''s films. The situation also deeply troubles Brady, who feels impelled to send Graham to "the hole," hoping it will change his mind. A week or so later, after a short trip, Mary returns home to the penitentiary and is surprised not to see Graham working as valet. Her surprise turns to shock when she finds out where Graham has been sent. She urges her father to release him. The warden criticizes his daughter for her naïveté, but reconsiders her plea once she proclaims her love for Graham. Along with Gleason and a few guards, he descends into the prison dungeon to let out the devastated prisoner. The other inmates logically think that Graham has spoken the name of the killer. Having previously smuggled a pocket knife down to another man in the hole, they hope Graham will be punished for squealing. Galloway, on the other hand, understands what is really happening. He purposely insults a guard in the jute mill and is promptly sent downstairs faithfully to protect his cellmate and loyal friend. Once in the dungeon, he kills the other prisoner and, in addition, cuts Gleason''s throat. (The Yard Captain was, in fact, the man responsible for Galloway''s lengthy incarceration). The other guards finally shoot him down. Graham, safe and unharmed, is immediately sent up to see Mary Brady. The two lovers embrace passionately for the first time.'
'musical','Shoftly after becoming engaged to a socialite, an upper-class American named Terry enlists in the US Marine Corps to get his wild urges out of his system. He and his two friends and comrades get into many scrapes, frequently ending up in the brig. While in Cuba, however, he falls in love with Nenita a spirited, passionate local woman. Their relationship is interrupted by America''s entry into World War I, and Terry is wounded in the fighting in France. He is nursed back to health by his fiancée and the two marry. More than a decade later, Terry bumps into his former comrades in New York. This reawakens memories of his carefree days in Cuba. He returns to Havana to find Nenita, only to discover that she has died of fever. However he comes across a boy named Terry, who he realizes is the product of his passionate relationship with Nenita a decade earlier. He adopts the boy and takes him back to the United States where his wife generously welcomes both father and son home.'
'crime','Former socialite, Bonnie Jordan (Joan Crawford) is a cub reporter whose brother Rodney (William Bakewell) is involved with a beer-running gang. On one caper, he drives the car that guns down a rival gang. Bonnie''s journalist colleague Bert Scranton (Cliff Edwards) is murdered when he finds out too much. Gang chief Jake Luva (Clark Gable) is suspected of plotting Scranton''s murder and Bonnie investigates, barely escaping with her life after learning the details of the gang''s operations. The criminals are brought to justice.'
'drama','Princess Ling Moy lives next door to the Petrie family, and is romantically involved with Ah Kee, a secret agent determined to thwart Fu Manchu. It is revealed that Fu Manchu is Ling Moy''s father.'
'romance','Shirley Mortimer (Ann Harding) is the second daughter of a wealthy London family, who view her as plain and treat her as little more than a servant. When her father''s friend David Trent (Leslie Howard) visits, she becomes smitten. Upon hearing that he and his son are in need of a new domestic, she disguises herself as an elderly matron, Mrs. Hastings, and begins to work for him. He is a defense attorney, currently defending a man, painter Norman Harrington (Robert Williams), on the charge of murdering his wife. As Mrs. Hastings, Shirley wins the friendship of David''s son and dotes on David, making sure he takes care of himself. David, for his part, begins to suspect that "Mrs. Hastings" is not who she claims. Harrington is acquitted, and upon meeting Mrs. Hastings asks to paint her portrait; while doing so, he realizes she is actually a young woman, but agrees to keep her secret. After spending an evening with Shirley (out of disguise) and her father, David realizes who "Mrs. Hastings" is, and reveals to Shirley that he has fallen in love with her. Before they can begin their romance, however, David''s estranged wife returns; assuming the worst, Shirley angrily leaves. She becomes a model for Harrington, who soon professes his own feelings, but rather than ask her to marry him, merely proposes that they travel the world together with Shirley as his mistress. Twice hurt, Shirley returns to her family home and her servant-like life there. Both Harrington and David turn up at the Mortimer home; Harrington makes his plea, but upon hearing from David that he had not seen his wife for four years, and intends to swiftly divorce her, Shirley happily reunites with him.'
'adventure','When the famed explorer Louis Rondelle (Hobart Bosworth) requests the U.S. Navy''s assistance in reaching the South Pole, officer Jack Bradon (Jack Holt) convinces Rear Admiral John S. Martin (Emmett Corrigan) to offer his dirigible, the USS Pensacola, for the attempt. Jack asks his best friend, "Frisky" Pierce (Ralph Graves), to pilot the biplane that will be carried on the airship. Frisky, who is adventurous to the point of recklessness, is eager to go even though he has just completed a record-setting coast-to-coast flight and has barely spent any time with his wife, Helen (Fay Wray). Basking in the acclaim, he has even forgotten to read the sealed love letter she gave him to open when he arrived. Helen loves Frisky but cannot make him believe how much she is hurt by the risks he takes. She sees Jack without her husband''s knowledge and begs him to drop Frisky from the expedition, and for the sake of their marriage, not tell him why. Jack, who also loves her, agrees. Frisky, assuming Jack does not want to share the fame, ends their friendship. The expedition soon ends in disaster: the Pensacola breaks in two and crashes into the ocean during a storm. Frisky participates in the rescue of the expedition by aircraft carrier. He now gets a leave of absence from the Navy to pilot a Fokker Trimotor transport aircraft for Rondelle''s next attempt at the South Pole. This proves too much for Helen. When she is unable to get Frisky to change his mind, she gives him another sealed letter (to be read when he reaches the Pole), but this time it says that she is divorcing him and will ask Jack to marry her. Frisky, Rondelle, Sock McGuire (Roscoe Karns), and Hansen (Harold Goodwin) reach the South Pole. When Frisky suggests landing on the snow, Rondelle accepts his judgment that there will be no danger. But in fact the aircraft flips over and bursts into flames, destroying most of their supplies. Rondelle''s leg is broken and Sock''s foot is injured. After radioing their base camp, they attempt to walk the 900 miles back to it, dragging Rondelle on a sled. Rondelle soon dies and is buried. Later, Frisky has to amputate Sock''s foot. When Sock realizes he is too much of a burden, he drags himself away to die while the other two are sleeping. They carry on, but Hansen breaks down when he finds they have been going in a circle and have returned to Rondelle''s grave. Frisky refuses to give up and forces Hansen to continue on. When Helen hears the news of the crash, she realizes no longer wants a divorce and wishes she could go to Frisky. Jack realizes he can, and talks Rear Admiral Martin into letting him attempt a rescue with his new dirigible, the USS Los Angeles. The two survivors are found and rescued. On the way back, Frisky remembers that he has again forgotten to read Helen''s letter, but he has snow blindness and asks Jack to read it to him. Jack quickly substitutes his own improvised version, in which Helen is proud of his accomplishment and waiting for her husband with undiminished love. He then destroys the letter. When they return, Frisky uncharacteristically skips a ticker tape parade through New York City to be with his wife. He is the first to mention the contents of the letter; to Helen''s great relief, she realizes that Jack has not only brought Frisky back to her but also saved their marriage.'
'comedy','On a whim, Herbert Blake proposes a wager with Roger Fallon that he won''t be able to get a kiss during the coming 48 hours from the next woman who happens to walk into the room. Fallon takes the bet, whereupon the woman who turns up is Herbert''s wife.'
'drama, horror','The film tells the story of Dr. Henry Jekyll (Fredric March), a kind English doctor in Victorian London, who is certain that within each man lurks impulses for both good and evil. One evening, Jekyll attends a party at the home of his fiancée Muriel Carew (Rose Hobart), the daughter of Brigadier General Sir Danvers Carew (Halliwell Hobbes). After the other guests have left, Jekyll informs Sir Danvers that, after speaking to Muriel, he wants Carew''s permission to push up their wedding date. Sir Danvers sternly refuses Jekyll''s request. Later, while walking home with his colleague, Dr. John Lanyon (Holmes Herbert), Jekyll spots a bar singer, Ivy Pierson (Miriam Hopkins), being attacked by a man outside her boarding house. Jekyll drives the man away and carries Ivy up to her room to attend to her. Ivy begins flirting with Jekyll and feigning injury, but Jekyll fights temptation and leaves with Lanyon. Muriel and Sir Danvers leave London for a few months. In the meantime, Jekyll develops a drug that releases the evil side in himself, thus becoming the violent Edward Hyde. Along with his behavior, Dr. Jekyll''s appearance changes as well. He transforms into something more menacing and primitive looking. Unlike Dr. Jekyll, Hyde has no conscience, no restrictions, no boundaries; he is free to do what he pleases. Hyde returns to Ivy''s boarding house where he learns of the music hall where she works. He "meets" her and offers to tend to her financial needs in return for her company. Hyde manipulates Ivy into accompanying him by terrorizing her, being violent, controlling and torturing her psychologically. He remains at her boarding house until he finds out that Muriel and her father are returning to London; he leaves Ivy but threatens her that he''ll be back but she won''t know when. Jekyll is overcome with guilt over how Hyde treated Ivy, and has his servant Poole deliver 50 pounds to her. Poole tells Ivy that the money is from Dr. Jekyll, whose name Ivy''s landlady Mrs. Hawkins (Tempe Pigott) recognizes as a doctor who helps those in need. Upon Mrs. Hawkins'' advice, Ivy goes to see Dr. Jekyll, hoping that he can free her of the abusive Hyde. When she arrives, Ivy sees that the celebrated Dr. Jekyll was the same man who saved her from abuse just months before. She breaks down in tears over her situation with Hyde. Jekyll is extremely distraught over the pain that he (Hyde) has caused her and promises Ivy that she will never have to worry about Hyde again. While on his way to a party at the Carews'' home to celebrate their return and the announcement of a new wedding date to Muriel, Jekyll, without the use of his drugs, suddenly changes into Hyde. Ivy, who thought she was free of Hyde forever, is terrified when Hyde appears before her. Hyde angrily confronts her about seeing Jekyll and, just before murdering her, reveals that he and Jekyll are one and the same. Hyde escapes and heads back to Jekyll''s house but Poole refuses to open the door. Desperate, Hyde writes a letter to Lanyon from Jekyll instructing Lanyon to get certain chemicals and have them waiting for him at Lanyon''s home. When Hyde arrives, Lanyon pulls a gun on him and demands that Hyde take him to Jekyll. Hyde tells Lanyon that Jekyll is safe, but Lanyon doesn''t believe him and refuses to let him leave. Realizing there is not much time, Hyde drinks the formula in front of Lanyon. Lanyon is shocked to witness the transformation and tells his friend that he has practically damned his soul for tampering with the laws of God. Lanyon also advises Jekyll that the transformation that happened that night will happen again eventually. Jekyll admits that he must call off the wedding to Muriel for her own safety, as he feels that he is already damned and fears that he will harm her. With Ivy''s murder, Sir Danvers'' anger towards him for missing the party, and Hyde''s persona beginning to dominate his own, Henry Jekyll''s life continues to spiral out of control. He later goes to the Carews'' where Sir Danvers coldly rejects his visit but Muriel welcomes him. Jekyll tells Muriel that he cannot be with her anymore. After leaving, he stands out on the terrace and tearfully watches Muriel cry. Suddenly Jekyll begins to change into Hyde once again. He then reenters the Carew house through the terrace door and assaults Muriel. Her screams bring her father and their butler, Hobson. Hyde then viciously murders Sir Danvers out in the garden by striking him repeatedly with Jekyll''s cane until it breaks, then runs off into the night towards Jekyll''s home and the lab to mix a new formula to change himself back. The police and Lanyon are standing over Carew''s body in the garden. Recognizing the broken cane found next to the body, Lanyon tells them that he knows whose cane that is and agrees to take them to its owner. The police later arrive at Jekyll''s lab looking for Hyde and find only Jekyll, who lies that Hyde has escaped. They begin to leave when Lanyon arrives and tells them that Jekyll is the man they''re searching for (because the man they are looking for is hiding inside him). Just then a nervous Jekyll begins changing into Hyde before their shocked eyes. Outraged at Lanyon for betraying him, Hyde leaps from behind the table and attacks him. Hyde then tries to escape from the police but is fatally shot before he can again hurt Lanyon. As Hyde lies dead on the table full of Dr. Jekyll''s experiments and potions, he transforms one last time back into Henry Jekyll.'
'horror','Renfield (Dwight Frye) is a solicitor traveling to Count Dracula''s (Bela Lugosi) castle in Transylvania on a business matter. The people in the local village fear that vampires inhabit the castle and warn Renfield not to go there. Renfield refuses to stay at the inn and asks his carriage driver to take him to the Borgo Pass. Renfield is driven to the castle by Dracula''s coach, with Dracula disguised as the driver. En route, Renfield sticks his head out the window to ask the driver to slow down, but sees the driver has disappeared; a bat leads the horses. Renfield enters the castle welcomed by the charming but eccentric Count, who unbeknownst to Renfield, is a vampire. They discuss Dracula''s intention to lease Carfax Abbey in London, where he intends to travel the next day. Dracula hypnotizes Renfield into opening a window. Renfield faints as a bat appears and Dracula''s three wives close in on him. Dracula waves them away, then attacks Renfield himself. Aboard the schooner Vesta, Renfield is a raving lunatic slave to Dracula, who hides in a coffin and feeds on the ship''s crew. When the ship reaches England, Renfield is discovered to be the only living person. Renfield is sent to Dr. Seward''s sanatorium adjoining Carfax Abbey. At a London theatre, Dracula meets Seward (Herbert Bunston). Seward introduces his daughter Mina (Helen Chandler), her fiancé John Harker (David Manners) and the family friend Lucy Weston (Frances Dade). Lucy is fascinated by Count Dracula. That night, Dracula enters her room and feasts on her blood while she sleeps. Lucy dies the next day after a string of transfusions. Renfield is obsessed with eating flies and spiders. Professor Van Helsing (Edward Van Sloan) analyzes Renfield''s blood and discovers his obsession. He starts talking about vampires, and that afternoon Renfield begs Seward to send him away, claiming his nightly cries may disturb Mina''s dreams. When Dracula calls Renfield with wolf howling, Renfield is disturbed by Van Helsing showing him wolfsbane, which Van Helsing says is used for protection from vampires. Dracula visits Mina, asleep in her bedroom, and bites her. The next evening, Dracula enters for a visit and Van Helsing and Harker notice that he does not have a reflection. When Van Helsing reveals this to Dracula, he smashes the mirror and leaves. Van Helsing deduces that Dracula is the vampire behind the recent tragedies. Mina leaves her room and runs to Dracula in the garden, where he attacks her. She is found by the maid. Newspapers report that a woman in white is luring children from the park and biting them. Mina recognizes the lady as Lucy, risen as a vampire. Harker wants to take Mina to London for safety, but is convinced to leave Mina with Van Helsing. Van Helsing orders Nurse Briggs (Joan Standing) to take care of Mina when she sleeps, and not to remove the wreath of wolfsbane from her neck. Renfield escapes from his cell and listens to the men discuss vampires. Before his attendant takes Renfield back to his cell, Renfield relates to them how Dracula convinced Renfield to allow him to enter the sanitorium by promising him thousands of rats with blood and life in them. Dracula enters the Seward parlour and talks with Van Helsing. Dracula states that Mina now belongs to him, and warns Van Helsing to return to his home country. Van Helsing swears to excavate Carfax Abbey and destroy Dracula. Dracula attempts to hypnotize Van Helsing, but the latter''s resolve proves stronger. As Dracula lunges at Van Helsing, he withdraws a crucifix from his coat, forcing Dracula to retreat. Harker visits Mina on a terrace, and she speaks of how much she loves "nights and fogs". A bat flies above them and squeaks to Mina. She then attacks Harker but Van Helsing and Seward save him. Mina confesses what Dracula has done to her, and tells Harker their love is finished. Dracula hypnotizes Briggs into removing the wolfsbane from Mina''s neck and opening the windows. Van Helsing and Harker see Renfield heading for Carfax Abbey. They see Dracula with Mina in the abbey. When Harker shouts to Mina, Dracula thinks Renfield has led them there and kills him. Dracula is hunted by Van Helsing and Harker knowing that Dracula is forced to sleep in his coffin during daylight, and the sun is rising. Van Helsing prepares a wooden stake while Harker searches for Mina. Van Helsing impales Dracula, killing him, and Mina returns to normal.'
'drama, thriller','A mad scientist seeks revenge against those he holds responsible for his daughter''s death.'
'drama','Growing up in a poor working-class family, Laura (Constance Bennett) works hard to support her family. Laura''s father, Ben (J. Farrell MacDonald) encourages his other daughter Peg (Anita Page) to marry a hard-working man named Nick (Clark Gable). Laura rejects a marriage proposal from the boy-next-door to become involved with William Brockton (Adolphe Menjou) a wealthy man many years her senior whom she met at a modeling job. She allows him to shower her with expensive gifts and moves into his luxury apartment. Her newly found wealth does not come without any backlash, though. Her mother Agnes (Clara Blandick), notices a difference in Laura and that she is working more nights. Dressing in wealthy attire, and arriving in a chauffeur driven car, she pays a visit to Peg, (now married to Nick). Nick noticing her style, demands that she leaves his house immediately, as he wants no association with a kept woman. Even though Laura realizes that she has become estranged from her family, she continues to stay with Brockton. Sometime later, while vacationing in Colorado, she meets and falls in love with young newsman Jack Madison (Robert Montgomery). After a brief affair, and pledging their fidelity to one another, Jack is stationed in Argentina for a several months, as Laura promises him that she will leave Brockton. She breaks the news to Brockton, returns all of his gifts, leaves his apartment, and takes a job at Macy''s department store. Laura, finds work at Macy''s but is so financially strapped, she can''t pay her rent. She unsuccessfully asks one of her former colleagues Elfie St. Clair (Marjorie Rambeau) for a loan. Laura can''t return to her room unless her rent is paid. She takes "The Easiest Way", and calls Brockton, asking for a loan. Brockton refuses and tells her he will only cooperate if she comes back to him on condition that she inform Jack of her decision. She promises Brockton that she will, but deceives him by not telling Jack. Jack returns to New York, phones Laura immediately and Laura invites him to her swank apartment. Meanwhile, Elfie pops in on Laura to ask for money. Desperate, Laura listens to Elfie, who advises her to leave Brockton and marry Jack, but under no circumstances tell Jack of her current set up. Laura agrees. But her plans to elope with Jack are cut short when Brockton unexpectedly shows up. Brockton, noticing Laura''s packed bags, informs Jack of what happened during his absence. Laura tries to explain the situation, but Jack, furious that Laura had broken her promise of fidelity to him, leaves. Despite Brockton''s offer to continue to care for her, Laura, leaves heart broken. Traveling to her sister''s home, her brother-in-law (Nick) invites her in. Nick, seeing that Laura had returned to her beginnings, comforts her with the promise that Madison will return when he gets "cool under the collar."'
'drama','The trophy wife of a stodgy man of wealth yearns for a more interesting life.'
'adventure','Linda Randolph (Hobart) looks for her husband on the island of Marado just east of Borneo. Although Linda is warned that Marado''s jungles are “entirely too dangerous” for a woman, she persists through dangerous raft rides and wild crocodiles. She discovers that her husband is now the personal physician to the island’s enigmatic prince. The prince lusts for Linda, and a love triangle ensues.'
'comedy','Dr. J. Dockweiler Droop (Robert Woolsey) is a carnival charlatan, scamming local shills out of their hard earned money. He adopted Rosie (Anita Louise) when she was three, and has raised her to become a pretty young woman, who is just as good an operator as her adoptive father is. As they pass through a small town, Rosie falls in love with Billy Lowe (John Darrow), and pleads with Dockweiler to leave the carnival life and settle down. Dockweiler agrees, and the two leave the carnival. To support them, Dockweiler becomes partners with a jewelry store owner, Al Oberdorf (Alfred James), who is on the verge of bankruptcy. Due to Dockweiler''s sales skills, he saves the store from failure. He has also been spending his time convincing the gullible townspeople that he is actually a European noblemen. While Rosie is in love with Billy, she finds out that he is engaged to a snobbish socialite, Madeline Van Dorn (Lita Chevret). Heartbroken, when Billy invites her to his birthday, she agrees to go, along with Dockweiler. While at the party, Dockweiler decides to get back at the townspeople who have heartbroken his daughter, and runs a crooked shell game, bilking the locals of large amounts of cash. When Rosie discovers that Billy has true feelings for her, and intends to marry her, she asks Dockweiler to lose back the money he has won. He agrees, but before the evening is out, the Sheriff (Clifford Dempsey) arrives and asks him to leave town for running a dishonest game. Before they can leave, however, the jewelry store is robbed, and suspicion falls on Dockweiler who is arrested for the theft. He escapes from the jail, and is leaving town with Rosie, when the Sheriff and Billy track them down to let them know that the real jewel thieves have been apprehended. Dockweiler understands that he will never fit in with the local gentry, so, now assured of Rosie''s happiness with Billy, bids them adieu and departs.'
'drama','In a heavy rainy night 2 couples -Dr. Ed Marcy, Tina, Rose and Peter Angel - are brought to the station by a hotel bus. Alone in the cabin, they argue with the one of them, who cheated at cards and who to blame, that they were thrown out of the hotel. Sometime later the train conductor calls on Dr. Ed Marcy because a woman is seriously ill. Marcy refuses first, saying he didn''t practice since long, but as the train conductor insists he goes to the cabin of the lady. He finds out, that she was going to see her son Philipp Bellows in New York, whom she hadn''t seen for fourteen years and who inherited $10,000,000 from her estranged ex-husband. The woman dies in the train and Marcy takes her photographs and a necklace and convinces Tina to impersonate Philipps mother. Tina who has been longing an opportunity to quit the gang accepts. She meets Philipp at his Long Island New York estate, where he lives with his guardianship Grant Arnold and the nurse Alice. She soon finds out that he is blind due to an airplane crash two years before. He doesn''t realize that she is an impostor and asks her to stay. She gets acquainted to Philipp and develops motherly feelings for Philipp and in general she''s touched and moved by the affection of Philipp. Philipp on his part is worried about leaving her something when he dies, knowing that through his will only an aunt will inherit. So he asks Grant to give her a cheque about $50.000 so that she can live better, but Grant tears up the cheque, as he knows about her. But he doesn''t say anything to Philipp, as he knows how sick he is, and he''ll soon have to die. So he warns Tina to avoid Philipp too much stress. Meantime Marcy is coming to the house to oblige Tina to do something, but in that night Philipp dies. As Marcy appears the next day demanding money, Grant tells Marcy that he has called the police, and informs him that he found out that Marcy was disbarred from practicing medicine and is wanted by the police. Marcy escapes and Tina is relieved to have that part of her life over, now that she has learned the joy of giving. Grant offers her a home with him and she accepts with an embrace.'
'comedy drama','Edna May Oliver plays a widowed woman with two daughters (Helen Chandler, Rochelle Hudson) who attempts to revive her career as a vaudeville performer. Her wealthy father-in-law, who believes that a vaudeville performer is not fit to bring up children properly, forces her to choose between her daughters or her career. In the end, all is forgiven and the father-in-law asks Fanny to sing one of her songs.'
'musical comedy','Set in Paris, the story concerns the exploits of wealthy Jack Forbes (William Gaxton), who bets his friend Michael Cummings (John Halliday) that he can woo and win Looloo Carroll (Claudia Dell) without using any of his money or connections. Cummings hires Simon and Peter (Ole Olsen and Chic Johnson), a pair of erstwhile detectives, to make sure that Forbes doesn''t win his bet. Instead, Simon and Peter befriend our hero and decide to help him out. Olsen & Johnson have all the best material, notably an early double entendre encounter with a randy American tourist (Helen Broderick) and a scene in which Olsen impersonates a mind-reading fakir (Bela Lugosi) -- who loses his clothes in the process! The finale has the comedians being chased by every law officer in Paris.'
'western','Clint Belmet (Gary Cooper) is a bit of a firebrand and is sentenced to at least 30 days in jail, but his partners, Bill Jackson (Ernest Torrence) and Jim Bridger (Tully Marshall) talk a sympathetic Frenchwoman named Felice (Lili Damita) into telling the bumbling, drunken marshal that Clint had married her the previous night. Clint is released so he can accompany Felice on the wagon train heading west to California. A short time later, Felice finds out that Bill and Jim had lied to her; she did not need a man in order to join the wagon train. In a short stopover in a town, they learn that the Indians are causing trouble, so Clint offers to guide the wagon train through the dangerous trails ahead. On the journey, Felice''s wagon runs out of control downhill and Clint rescues her. Felice starts talking about marriage. Clint has always been free and wants to stay that way, so he leaves. He later finds out that Indians (Kiowas and Cheyenne who have been talked into the warpath by crooked traders) are planning to attack the wagon train. He, Bill and Jim rush back to save the day. The Indians attack at a river crossing. Clint helps save the day with some barrels of gunpowder but his friends are killed. The survivors continue on to California.'
'western','Tim Benton (Tim McCoy) is falsely accused of killing his own father and escapes from prison along with brutish Red Larkin (Matthew Betz). The fugitives head for the former Benton mine now operated by the villainous John Sebastian (Ethan Laidlaw), where Tim plans to rob the payroll. En route, they are discovered by Bob Dinsmore (Anders Van Haden), the new marshal of Silver City, who is killed by Red.[2]'
'drama, crime','Breckenridge "Breck" Lee (Richard Barthelmess) is a young, naïve kid from the South who comes to New York to get a job as a newspaperman. After getting hired by The Press, his first assignment is to expose the existence of a newly opened gambling parlor. Gangster Louis J. Blanco (Clark Gable) attempts to bribe Lee to keep quiet. Lee refuses to accept the bribe, and publishes an article about the casino which subsequently gets raided by the police. Mugged and severely beaten by gangsters, Lee winds up in the hospital. Upon leaving the hospital and returning to work, he longs to marry fellow reporter Marcia Collins (Fay Wray), but his meager salary combined with the hospital bill prevents this from happening. Lee attempts to seek a raise from City Editor Frank Carter (Robert Elliott), but is refused the increase in pay. Yearning for the aforementioned bribe, Lee re-approaches Blanco with a deal that he will not report on the organization''s dealings in return for a fee. As Blanco pays well for Lee''s un-reporting, Marcia becomes suspicious of Lee''s wealth, but Lee denies any illegality in the acquisition of the money. Becoming increasingly confident of his control, Lee determines to acquire a larger share of the bribes by shaking down the gangsters. After learning that Number One, the head of the organization, is planning on opening a new gambling house, he threatens Blanco that he will print that information unless he gets a bigger share of money. Upon meeting Number One, Lee obtains the larger graft, but is warned that if the story gets published, he will be in danger. Feeling that Lee is untrustworthy, Collins agrees to marry fellow reporter Charles "Breezy" Russell (Regis Toomey). Consequently, Lee decides to go straight and leave the city with Marcia if she will marry him. She acquiesces, but "Breezy" publishes the gambling story, hoping to impress Marcia. The following morning as Lee and Marcia are getting ready to leave, "Breezy" shows up with his story in the newspaper. After Lee sees it, he decides to go to the bank to retrieve his money despite Marcia''s pleas not to. Lee is followed and killed by gangsters. At his funeral, Lee is named as a hero. Marcia stays quiet, although she knows the truth.'
'drama','Joseph W. Randall, the city editor of a tabloid newspaper, reluctantly agrees when publisher Bernard Hinchecliffe plans to boost circulation with a retrospective series on a 20-year-old murder and scandal, involving a secretary, Nancy Voorhees, who shot the man who got her pregnant and then refused to marry her. Nancy is now married to Michael Townsend, an upstanding member of society, and has a daughter, Jenny, about to marry the son of a socially prominent family, Philip Weeks. She reacts with horror at the renewed interest in the scandal she had put behind her. To dig up dirt about Nancy, Randall assigns an unscrupulous reporter, "Reverend" T. Vernon Isopod, who masquerades as a minister and wins the confidence of the bride''s parents on the eve of the wedding. They confess to him their concerns that Nancy''s past will come out, and he uses their information to write a story that Randall prints. Nancy tries to get Randall to back away from the story, but when he refuses she kills herself, as does her husband shortly afterwards. Phillip''s parents pressure him to call off the wedding to Nancy''s daughter Jenny, but he refuses and stands up to them. An enraged Jenny threatens Randall at gun point, attempting to force him to take responsibility for the deaths of her mother and father, but Philip shows up and calms her down. A guilty Randall denounces Hinchecliffe as a hypocrite and decides to quit the paper, as does his secretary Miss Taylor, who''s been in love with him for years.[2][3][4]'
'comedy','Waitress Pansy Botts (Charlotte Greenwood) places an ad in the Pilot''s Gazette for a husband, offering a $500 reward, but is unsuccessful. At the nearby airfield, inventor Rusty Krouse (Bert Lahr) has built the "Aerocopter", intending to enter it in the upcoming 10th Annual Air Show. With finances depleted, Rusty looks to Sport Wardell (Pat O''Brien) for help in finding a wealthy investor. Soon, Fred Smith (Guy Kibbee) and his daughter Eileen (Kathryn Crawford) show some interest in the Aerocopter, but have no ready cash. Rusty is worried that his partner will go to jail after accepting a check from Mr. Smith. Sport convinces him to marry Pansy and use her $500 dowry to salvage the company''s future. Sport convinces Pansy that she is marrying the man in the picture (Clark Gable) he shows her. Nevertheless, she is instantly attracted to Rusty. The deal with the Smiths falls through when both Smith and Sport are arrested for shady dealing. Sport tells his new love, Eileen, that he has to find bail money and the only way is for Rusty to fly his invention at the air show and win the prize money. In order to qualify as a pilot, Rusty ends up being examined by Doctor Brown (Charles Winninger), who thinks he is mad. Pansy chases after the reluctant groom, who has gotten cold feet, and finally traps him. During the air show, both Pansy and Rusty end up at the airport and in the Aerocopter. After taking off clumsily, crashing through the roof of a hangar, once in the air, Rusty tells Pansy that an important part is out on the wing and they need it to land. Pansy climbs onto the wing, but has to parachute to safety. Rusty keeps flying higher, reaching a height of 53,000 feet before he releases fuel and eventually descends, passing Pansy on her way down. He crash-lands heavily at the airfield, emerging from the wreckage to find he has been awarded first prize. With the prize money saving the company, all the couples then happily reunite.'
'horror, science fiction','In a European village, a young scientist, named Henry Frankenstein, and his assistant Fritz, a hunchback, piece together a human body, the parts of which have been collected from various sources, including stealing freshly buried bodies in a cemetery, and recently hanged criminals. Frankenstein desires to create human life through electrical devices which he has perfected. He sends Fritz to a school where Dr. Waldman, Henry''s old medical professor, teaches, to steal a brain; Fritz drops the normal brain and has to take the brain of a criminal. Elizabeth, his fiancée, is worried over his peculiar actions. She cannot understand why he secludes himself in an abandoned watch tower, which he has equipped as a laboratory, refusing to see anyone. She and a friend, Victor Moritz, go to Dr. Waldman, and ask Waldman''s help in reclaiming the young scientist from his experiments. Waldman tells them that Frankenstein has been working on creating life. Elizabeth, intent on rescuing Frankenstein, arrives just as Henry is making his final tests. He tells them to watch, claiming to have discovered the ray that brought life into the world. They watch Frankenstein and the hunchback as they raise the dead creature on an operating table, high into the room, toward an opening at the top of the laboratory. Then a terrific crash of thunder, the crackling of Frankenstein''s electric machines, and the hand of Frankenstein''s creature begins to move, prompting Frankenstein to shout ''It''s alive!''. The manufactured creature, despite its grotesque form, initially appears to be a simple, innocent creation. Frankenstein welcomes it into his laboratory and asks his creation to sit, which it does. He then opens up the roof, causing the creature to reach out towards the sunlight. Fritz enters with a flaming torch, which frightens the creature. Its fright is mistaken by Frankenstein and Waldman as an attempt to attack them, and it is chained in the dungeon. Thinking that it is not fit for society and will wreak havoc at any chance, they leave the creature locked up, where Fritz antagonizes it with a torch. As Henry and Waldman consider the creature''s fate, they hear a shriek from the dungeon. Frankenstein and Waldman find the creature has strangled Fritz. The creature lunges at the two but they escape, locking the creature inside. Realizing that the creature must be destroyed, Henry prepares an injection of a powerful drug and the two conspire to release the creature and inject it as it attacks. When the door is unlocked the creature lunges at Frankenstein as Waldman injects the drug into the creature''s back. The creature falls to the floor unconscious. Henry collapses from exhaustion, and Elizabeth and Henry''s father arrive and take him home. Henry is worried about the creature but Waldman reassures him that he will destroy it. Later, Henry is at home, recovered and preparing for his wedding while Waldman examines the creature. As he is preparing to vivisect it, the creature awakens and strangles him. It escapes from the tower and wanders through the landscape. It has a short encounter with a farmer''s young daughter, Maria. She is not afraid of him and asks him to play a game with her in which they toss flowers into a lake and watch them float. The creature enjoys the game, but when they run out of flowers he thinks Maria will float as well, so he throws her into the lake where, to his puzzlement, she drowns. Upset by this outcome, the creature runs away. With preparations for the wedding completed, Henry is serenely happy with Elizabeth. They are to marry as soon as Waldman arrives. Victor rushes in, saying that the Doctor has been found strangled. Henry suspects the creature, who enters Elizabeth''s room, causing her to scream. When the searchers arrive, they find Elizabeth unconscious on the bed. The creature has escaped. Maria''s father arrives, carrying his daughter''s body. He says she was murdered, and the villagers form a search party to capture the creature, and bring it to justice (dead or alive). In order to search the whole country for the creature, they split into three groups: Ludwig leads the first group into the woods, Henry leads the second group into the mountains, and the Burgomaster leads the third group by the lake. During the search, Henry becomes separated from the group and is discovered by the creature, who attacks him. The creature knocks Henry unconscious and carries him off to an old mill. The peasants hear his cries and they regroup to follow. They find the creature has climbed to the top, dragging Henry with him. The creature hurls the scientist to the ground. His fall is broken by the vanes of the windmill, saving his life. Some of the villagers hurry him to his home while the rest of the mob set the windmill ablaze, killing the entrapped creature inside. At Castle Frankenstein, Frankenstein''s father, Baron Frankenstein, celebrates the wedding of his recovered son with a toast to a future grandchild.'
'drama','Defense lawyer Stephen Ashe (Lionel Barrymore) successfully defends known gangster Ace Wilfong (Clark Gable) from a murder charge, despite his knowledge of Ace''s other illegal activities. His upper-class family has all but disowned him and his daughter Jan (Norma Shearer), due to Stephen''s alcoholism and Jan''s free spirited willfulness. Jan is engaged to clean-cut Dwight Winthrop (Leslie Howard), but their relationship is threatened when she meets Ace and becomes enamored with him and his exciting life. As Stephen continues to slip deeper into alcoholism, Jan breaks her engagement with Dwight and begins a clandestine affair with Ace, which grows into love. This comes to a head when Ace asks a drunken Stephen if he can marry Jan; Stephen, offended by the request, angrily refuses, and when he discovers Jan in Ace''s boudoir, takes her home. They have an argument over their respective vices, and Jan proposes a deal: she will never see Ace again if Stephen will give up drinking. Despite knowing he cannot keep his promise, Stephen agrees, and the two of them leave for a cleansing camping holiday, along with Stephen''s fiercely loyal assistant Eddie (James Gleason). After three months of sobriety, Stephen buys a bottle of liquor and boards a train for an unknown destination. Jan returns home to find her family has cut her off; feeling despondent, she visits Ace. He reacts angrily and possessively to her return and informs her that they will be married the next day. Jan slowly realizes what sort of man he really is, and sneaks away. Ace follows her to her apartment and, after a brief confrontation involving Eddie and Dwight, threatens Jan that she cannot get out of marrying him, and that if she marries Dwight he (Ace) will make sure Dwight is killed. Dwight goes to Ace''s gambling club and kills him, then turns himself in for the murder. He tells the police that it was over a gambling debt, to protect Jan''s reputation even though it will mean his own execution. Jan finds Stephen in a flophouse, seriously ill from his drinking binge, and brings him to Dwight''s trial. Over the objections of both Dwight and the prosecuting attorney, Stephen puts Jan on the witness stand and brings out the full details of her relationship with Ace, and the true reason Dwight killed him. In an emotional appeal to the jury, Stephen takes the blame for everything that happened, explaining that his alcoholism meant that he had failed to be a proper father to Jan until it was too late. He then collapses to the ground, dead. Dwight is acquitted and, as Jan prepares to leave for a new life in New York, promises to follow her.'
'western','John Macy runs a wagon train caravan which supplies a remote settlement. His son, Steve, helps him in running the caravan, as well as dating one of the local girls in the town, Ruth. Randolph Carter is a local banker who covets the commerce created by the wagon train. Carter hires gunmen to attack the caravan, who in a raid, kill Macy, and take possession of the wagons and their supplies. Steve, who was not with the caravan at the time of the attack, takes over running the caravan. Due to the losses inflicted by the gunmen, Steve is forced to go to the local bank for a loan, in order to keep the operation running. However, Carter is the banker and refuses to provide him with the necessary funds. Two of Steve''s friends, Rough and Ready, go to the bank in an attempt to convince Carter to change his mind. When the opportunity arises, the two friends help themselves to the needed funds from the bank''s safe. Steve takes the money, not knowing how it was obtained. When Carter accuses Steve of stealing the money, he is forced to flee. When he and his two friends take refuge in a cabin in the mountains, they uncover the true gunmen who have been plaguing the caravan, who are plotting to attack the next caravan, as well as disclosing where they have hidden the wagons they have stolen previously. As Rough and Ready head out to recover the stolen wagons, Steve heads into the town to expose Carter. However, Carter has already convinced the town leaders that Steve is not to be trusted, and that he should be given the contract to run the caravan. Steve, hiding from the townspeople, now that Carter has turned them against him, manages to convince Ruth of his innocence. He escapes from the town and joins Rough and Ready, who are bringing the stolen caravan and the much needed supplies into town. The caravan is once again attacked by Carter''s henchmen, but this time they are ready, and defeat the gunmen. The caravan arrives in town, at which point Steve exposes Carter as the mastermind behind the attacks. Steve remains in control of the caravan, and wins the hand of Ruth.'
'drama','British Army captain Geoff Roberts (Adolphe Menjou) carries on an affair with Alva (Lili Damita), the wife of the cruel Victor Sangrito (Erich Von Stroheim). Sangrito, however, is well aware of the affair, as he uses his beautiful wife to lure men into romance with her, then blackmailing them to save their careers. When Roberts falls into Sangrito''s trap, he pays the blackmail and leaves for India, hoping to forget Alva, whom he loved but now believes betrayed him. After some time in India, he is joined by his young friend and bosom companion Lt. Ned Nichols (Laurence Olivier). Nichols, too, is in love with a woman back in England—the same woman. Although the two friends nearly come to blows over Alva, they eventually realize that she has been false to them both and that their friendship far outweighs their feelings for a mendacious woman. However, when the two are invalided home, they encounter Alva again, and learn that she may not have betrayed them after all.'
'comedy','The film, considered a screwball comedy, centers on a reporter, Hildebrand ''Hildy'' Johnson (Pat O''Brien) and his editor (Adolphe Menjou), who hope to cash in on a big story involving an escaped accused murderer, Earl Williams (Stone) and hide him in a rolltop desk while everybody else tries to find him.'
'drama','Jack Thomas has grown up in the belief that he was an orphan. His guardian tells him that he has an elder brother (Frank Tomasulo) and a dying father. They are both in the liquor business prohibition era. On his deathbed the father gives Jack an emerald necklace. Jack gives it to his fiancé. It turns out that the necklace was stolen. Frank does not want his father''s name to be put in the dirt, so he forces his kid brother to admit that he stole the nacklace. So he does. His fiancé Marjorie Channing breaks off the engagement and travels to England. Jack decides to join the family business. He kills the member of a rival mob, and its leader wants revenge by killing Jack.'
'comedy','South of the U.S. border, Don José Tostado, a Mexican cabellero, falls in love with Dolores Romero, a dance-hall girl. Owning one of the larger ranches in the area, Tostado is not used to people telling him no. When Romero resists his advances, using a fictional boyfriend as her excuse, this only increases his interest in her, and his attempts to win her favor. As part of that attempt, he plans to throw a gala in her honor. Meanwhile, Romero falls for Johnny Powell, a dealer at a nearby casino. She confides in him that she has no interest in Romero, but doesn''t know how to get him to leave her alone. Powell offers to take her away and get married. They make their plans, but before they can carry them out, Tostado learns of them and hatches a plot of his own: he frames Powell for a murder and has him arrested. When Dolores hears that Tostado has paid the jailer to kill Johnny during an escape attempt, she makes a deal with Tostado to give herself to him in exchange for Johnny''s life and freedom. Tostado agrees. When Johnny is freed, Dolores makes it clear that she is no longer interested in him, and that she intends to marry Tostado. Dolores leaves with Tostado, heading for his ranch. On the way, she attempts to commit suicide, but is stopped by Tostado, who is startled to discover that she would rather be dead than be stuck with him for the rest of her life. When they arrive back at his hacienda, they are surprised by Johnny, who fights Tostado. When they police arrive, they arrest Johnny, and are ready to execute him summarily, on Tostado''s orders. Dolores intercedes on Johnny''s behalf, and her pleas have their desired effect. Realizing that he''s beaten, Tostado calls off the police, and lets Dolores leave with Johnny.'
'comedy','Wanda Howard (Kay Francis) and Marie Bailey (Lilyan Tashman) go out with two balding, middle-aged businessmen from out of town (for $500 apiece) to help Jerry Chase (Alan Dinehart) close a sale. However, the women, who share a luxurious suite in an apartment building, have their African-American maid Hattie (Louise Beavers) disguise herself as their mother, waiting at the window, to avoid having to invite the men inside. Wanda is getting tired of how she makes a living, but she and Marie go aboard a yacht the next night to divert rich practical joker Benjamin Thomas (Eugene Pallette) and his handsome business associate Jim Baker (Joel McCrea). Jim knows that the women are paid "entertainment", but quickly finds himself falling for Wanda anyway, and vice versa. (When Jerry pays her for her efforts, Wanda tears up the check.) Once Jim realizes she genuinely loves him, he asks her to marry him. Although she is initially reluctant, she agrees. However, she informs Jim that there is one complication: her estranged husband Alex (Anderson Lawler). She asks him for a divorce, and he agrees. Meanwhile, Benjamin''s wife, who is divorcing him because of his stinginess, shows up and asks Marie to stop making a fool of him. Marie realizes that Mrs Thomas (Lucille Gleason) is still in love with her husband, and comes up with a plan to cure him of his tightfisted ways. The next day, Marie steers Benjamin to the jewelry store where Mrs Thomas is waiting. Mrs Thomas, pretending not to see him, complains (in a loud voice) how cheap her husband is. Benjamin becomes so angry he buys Marie lots of expensive items for about $50,000. That night, Alex crashes the birthday party Marie has arranged for Benjamin. He tells Jim that he wants $10,000 or he will name Jim as the co-respondent in the divorce. Alex insinuates that Wanda is part of the blackmail scheme. Believing the lie, Jim breaks up with Wanda. Wanda visits Alex in Brooklyn and demands he give the money back. He introduces her (as "cousin Wanda") to the ailing Mrs. Howard and their baby, the reasons he needs the money so desperately. He confesses that he got a divorce in Mexico 2 years before, and promises to pay her back once he is back on his feet financially. Touched, Wanda leaves without the check. Wanda decides to auction off enough of her possessions to her friends to raise $10,000 and pay Jim back. She also asks Marie to return her jewelry. Wanda gives Jim the proceeds; even before that, however, he has come to his senses, and the couple reconcile. Marie gives Benjamin''s gifts to his wife and reunites that couple.'
'musical comedy','Wealthy French playboy Toto Duryea (Frank Fay) is irresistible to women, but is in love with none of them. According to Monsieur Rancour (Armand Kaliz), for Toto, "every woman is like a new dish to be tasted." When he is finally and instantly smitten with American Diane Churchill (Laura LaPlante), he has great difficulty proving to her and her father (Charles Winninger) that he truly loves her. Finally, he convinces her that he is sincere; Mr. Churchill insists that Toto give up his women and carousing and stay away from his daughter for six months to prove he has reformed. He also asks that Toto get examined by Churchill''s doctor. Dr. Dumont (Arthur Edmund Carewe) has bad news for Toto: his heart is so weak, even the excitement caused by so much as a woman''s kiss would be fatal. Toto takes to his bed, but three of his girlfriends insist on nursing him: Fifi (Joan Blondell), Florine (Louise Brooks) and Dagmar (Yola d''Avril). When they all converge on his bedroom and discover each other, they engage in a three-way catfight. Then an outraged husband (John T. Murray) shows up to shoot him. Fortunately, Dr. Dumont arrives and divulges Toto''s condition. The husband and the three women all leave. Then Diane shows up. Before she leaves with her father for America, she insists on spending an hour of passion with him. Unable to resist, he kisses her. When he remains alive, he upbraids the newly arrived Dr. Dumont for his faulty prognosis. Mr. Churchill explains that he had Dumont fake his diagnosis; it was all a test of Toto''s claim that he loved Diane "more than life itself". Convinced, he gives Toto permission to marry Diane.'
'comedy','In every port, sailor Bill, Spencer Tracy, meets girls, who sailor Spike, Warren Hymer, has already met, and talked into getting his signature tattoo. When Bill and Spike finally meet, they become friends. Then, they meet Carny high diver, Goldie, Jean Harlow.'
'drama','Jean Paurel is a famous opera star, who agrees to help Diana Page her career, in order to take advantage of her. But instead he finds himself falling in love with her.'
'romantic crime/mystery','A womanizing matinée idol is found strangled in his dressing room. The door is locked from the inside and there is no other way into the room. He had been having an affair with his leading lady, while his actress wife is doing the same with the stage manager. Everyone, including a young actress who had been fired from the play, and an old actor now relegated to a stage-doorman, has a motive.The explanation for the murder lies within the script of the play.'
'comedy drama','The story revolves around a husband-and-wife acting team. Simply because he is insecure, the husband suspects his wife could be capable of infidelity. The husband disguises himself as a guardsman with a thick accent, woos his wife under his false identity, and ends up seducing her. The couple stays together, and at the end the wife tells the husband that she knew it was him, but played along with the deception.'
'drama, crime','On a train trip, lawyer Richard Grant (Lionel Barrymore) tells fellow passengers that, based on his long experience both prosecuting and defending murder cases, murder is sometimes justified and a clever man should be able to commit it undetected. He is traveling to the isolated estate of his wealthy client and friend, Gordon Rich (Alan Mowbray); his young adult daughter Barbara (Madge Evans) surprises him at the train station, where she informs him that she has already been there a week. Grant''s view is soon put to the test. Rich asks him to rewrite his will, including bequests to all his former mistresses (except one who is dead already; she was just 16, and Grant believes it was suicide). When Rich explains that he wants a new will because he intends to marry Barbara, Grant is appalled. He repeats what he said on the train. Rich deserves to be murdered, and if that is what it takes to stop the marriage, Grant will do it and get away with it. Rich retorts that if necessary he will retaliate from beyond the grave. Grant replies that he will meet him in hell. Barbara had not yet told her father because Rich asked her not to. He now pleads with her, pointing out the great age difference and Rich''s indecent character. He says a bride''s wedding night should be a "thing of beauty", but Rich will leave a more horrible, shameful, long-lasting memory than her innocent mind can imagine. But she loves Rich and is adamant. Nor has Tommy Osgood (William Bakewell), a young man Barbara had been seeing, been able to change her mind. At a dinner party that night, Rich announces the wedding and says it will take place in the morning. Grant''s congratulatory remarks include a veiled threat about "all the hours of your life". Rich''s longtime girlfriend, Marjorie West (Kay Francis), is dismayed, but after the party he assures her that, as usual, he will return to her once he exhausts his obsession with Barbara. He is only marrying Barbara because she would not go to bed with him otherwise. Rich orders two servants to watch Grant''s bungalow on the estate, but Grant uses a cutout mounted on a record player to cast a moving shadow on the curtain as if he is pacing restlessly, and slips back to the main house. Meanwhile, Rich goes to Barbara''s room. He loses control and grabs her roughly; she recoils in disgust and he leaves, returning to his den. Rich now writes a letter to the police accusing Grant in case he is found dead, but at this point Grant sneaks into the room, takes Rich''s gun from his desk, and shoots him during a clap of thunder. Grant places the gun in the dead man''s hand, takes the letter, and returns to his room just in time to be seen by the servants. When the body is discovered, Grant insists that his host must have committed suicide. To Grant''s shock, Barbara soon informs him that she had changed her mind, rendering the crime unnecessary. Alone of all the houseguests, Marjorie West is certain it was murder. She figures out how Grant concocted his alibi, then accidentally finds the imprint of the incriminating letter on the desk blotter. However, Grant returns and wrestles the evidence away from her. He tells her that if she accuses him, he will trump up a murder case against her, based on her jealousy of Barbara and her inheritance under Rich''s existing will; but if not, she is free to enjoy Rich''s fortune. When the police arrive, West is uncertain what to do. The coroner examines (and moves) the body. The chief of police, an old friend, accepts Grant''s "conclusion" that it was suicide. West finally decides to speak out, but just then the gradual rigor mortis contraction of the victim''s trigger finger reaches the point where the gun fires. Grant is fatally wounded. "You did it, Rich", he remarks cryptically, and then asks Tommy to take good care of Barbara. Seeing no reason to hurt Barbara, Marjorie decides to remain silent after all.'
'western','Following a killing and robbery in a big city back east, gang leader Kedge Darvas (Boyd) and some of his henchies take a train to a small western town in Idaho, with intentions of hiding out there until things cool down back in Chi or NYC, or wherever they lammed from. They are welcomed with open arms by the citizens under the impression they are there as capital investors with money to spend. Before long, Darvas figures the town is ripe for the taking and sends word for reinforcements, and each arriving train unloads a few suits and snappy-brim hats. Then they get rough, kill Sheriff Posey Meed (Oliver) and rile up the citizens, led by cowhand Brad Farley (Arlen), who had Darvas spotted for a wrong number just by the way he made moves on Sue Vancey (Brian),'
'drama','In 1927, Captain Lilly (Harry Beresford) is a steamboat captain who pilots a boat on the Mississippi River, with the help of his son, States (Lew Ayres). Along their route is a shantytown made up of houseboats, the residents of which often fight with the steamboat crowd. After a shooting match between States and shanty-boater Chicken Sam (John Carradine), Sam reveals to States his true heritage: Captain Lilly killed States'' real father - a shanty-boater - and adopted States as his own son. States confirms this fact with court records, and after leaving Captain Lilly, becomes a boarder on Aunt Vergie''s (Elizabeth Patterson) houseboat. Vergie''s daughter Towhead (Anita Louise), falls in love with States and, understanding that he''s homesick, sneaks onto Captain Lilly''s steamboat and takes his dog, Shoo-Fly. States tries to get the dog to return to Captain Lilly, but Shoo-Fly insists on staying by his side. Later when Captain Lilly approaches States to ask him to come back, he sees Shoo-Fly and - believing that States kidnapped the dog - denounces him. States then builds his own shanty-boat with a breakwater protecting it, only to have Captain Lilly drive his own steamboat into it, thinking it is creating a bar in the river. Unknown to Captain Lilly, Towhead, was in States'' boat at the time, and she is injured during the crash. States also plans to marry Towhead, but Captain Lilly has him institutionalized in a reform school when he hears of his plans. States is later freed from the institution by some of his friends and then borrows a gun with the intention of going after Captain Lilly and killing him. In the meantime, the Mississippi River has begun to flood dangerously, and people from the nearby town have been trying to burn down the shantytown, prompting the shanty-boaters to release their boats from their moorings. States dives into the river, swimming for Aunt Vergie''s boat. Captain Lilly follows with his steamboat, scanning the river with a searchlight. States finds Vergie and Towhead on their shantyboat and stays with them, boarding up the windows. Captain Lilly catches sight of Aunt Vergie''s shantyboat headed for a break in a levee and, realizing that it will likely be destroyed, saves the boat just before it reaches the break. Lilly continues to help other shanty-boaters, his former rivals, and by morning, States is back in Captain Lilly''s pilot house with Towhead by his side.'
'drama, adventure','Leading Chief Petty Officer "Windy" Riker (Wallace Beery)[Note 2] is a veteran aerial gunner of a Navy Helldiver dive bomber and the leading chief of Fighting Squadron One, about to go to Panama aboard the USS Saratoga aircraft carrier. He loses his five-year title of "champion machine gunner" after young C.P.O. Steve Nelson (Clark Gable) joins the squadron. Windy, notorious for using his fists to enforce discipline, is charged by local police with wrecking a Turkish bath. Windy is saved from arrest, however, when Lieutenant Commander Jack Griffin (John Miljan), skipper of the squadron, intervenes on his behalf. Griffin and his second-in-command, Lieutenant "Duke" Johnson (Conrad Nagel), agree that Nelson is the best candidate to replace Windy as he ponders retirement. The chiefs engage in friendly rivalry until the squadron practices a new dive-bombing technique and Steve becomes a hero, saving the base from being accidentally bombed by climbing out on the wing of his dive bomber to hold in place a bomb that failed to release. Feelings turn bitter when Steve contradicts Windy''s explanation of the accident and Windy punches him in resentment. Windy is dressed down by Duke when the officer sees the punch. When Steve''s sweetheart, Ann Mitchell (Dorothy Jordan), visits him, he proposes marriage to her, but Windy uses a practical joke to get even with Steve. Unaware that Ann is Steve''s fiancee and not simply a girl he is trying to impress, Windy bribes an old acquaintance, Lulu (Marie Prevost), to pretend to be Steve''s outraged lover. Ann leaves upset and will not listen to Steve''s denials. Griffin loses an arm following a mid-air collision at night. The accident occurs when the aircraft are returning from delivering the admiral and his flag to the Saratoga before the squadron embarks.[Note 3] Griffin is retired and replaced in command of Fighting One by Duke Johnson. Windy becomes Johnson''s gunner when the squadron flies to the ship. During a bombing exercise off Panama, Windy misplaces his code book and delays the takeoff of the squadron. As punishment, he is assigned to supervise a work party when the ship docks, missing liberty and keeping him from seeing Mame Kelsey (Rambeau), the woman in Panama he wants to settle down with after retirement. Steve, who knows Mame, encounters her on the dock and shares her carriage, but Windy hears about it and sneaks into town. Mame tries to convince Steve to patch up his differences with Windy, then promotes peace between them when Windy shows up at her hotel. Having a drink together in the bar, however, Windy starts a brawl. Steve tries to help him avoid the local police but Windy is thrown in jail. As the Saratoga passes through the Panama Canal, Mame bails Windy out of jail and he catches up to it by stealing a boat. For his transgressions, the captain of the Saratoga reduces Windy one rate from chief. Windy is disciplined at "Captain''s Mast" and reduced to Aviation Machinist''s Mate 1st Class for leaving his post without authorization, absent without leave, and missing ship. Steve reluctantly becomes leading chief. During a mock battle, Steve''s aircraft crashes near a rocky island, killing the pilot and leaving Steve with a broken leg. Duke and Windy land to rescue Steve, but Duke suffers a head injury and Windy has to save both. They have only a radio receiver and cannot be found in the fog. Steve and Windy become friends while waiting for rescue. Windy writes Ann a note confessing what he did with Lulu. After four days, Duke''s condition worsens, Steve develops blood poisoning, and they hear on the radio that the Saratoga is leaving. Windy tries to save them by flying them out in Duke''s dive bomber, with Duke in the rear cockpit and Steve riding on the wing. Despite the fog, they find the aircraft carrier, but crash on landing and Windy is fatally injured. By his last request, Windy is buried at sea as a missing man formation flies overhead.'
'romance','While docked in a Caribbean port aboard a third-rate freighter, Captain Sam Whalan (Gary Cooper) gets involved in a drunken brawl in a seedy tavern. Returning to the ship, Sam discovers that a baby boy, rescued from a drifting Navy boat, has been left for an unnamed sailor aboard his ship. Deciding to adopt the child himself, Sam advertises for a "mother" and soon hires Sally Clark (Claudette Colbert) as the child''s nanny in exchange for her passage to New York. Sally tells him she is the daughter of a recently deceased missionary. Unknown to Sam, Sally is actually a dance hall girl dressed to appear virtuous and proper. During the voyage, Sally takes loving care of the child while Sam protects her from the lusty sailors on board. One night, the first mate, Gatson (Averell Harris), recognizes Sally from a dance hall and tries to blackmail her into sleeping with him. Sally struggles to reject his advances, and Sam comes to her rescue. In the ensuing struggle, Gatson falls overboard. Unable to locate him in the dense fog, he is assumed dead. By the time they arrive in New York, Sam and Sally have fallen in love and intend to marry. The Department of Commerce, however, calls Sam to testify in an investigation of the Gatson incident, and he is soon arrested. Sam and Sally are surprised to learn that Gatson survived, was picked up by a cruise ship, and is now pressing charges against Sam for assault and attempted murder. In the course of the investigation, in order to clear Sam of the charges, Sally is forced to reveal her sordid past as a dance hall girl. Shocked and disappointed by the revelation, Sam tells Sally to leave the ship, and decides to put the baby up for adoption, despite Sally''s sincere protests. After sending his assistant Aloysius (Hamtree Harrington) to deliver Sally''s luggage, Sam goes off drinking with Gatson. Later that night, a vengeful Sam brings Gatson to Sally''s apartment to insult her. When she learns from another sailor that the baby was left out in the rain and is now sick, she immediately comes to care for the infant with the help of a doctor. Sam postpones his next sailing mission until the child''s fever breaks and he begins to recover. By the time the baby is well and the ship pulls up anchor, Sam and Sally have made amends and renew their plans to marry.'
'western','Polo player Tony Bard (George O''Brien) travels West to investigate his father''s murder, and meets Jerry Foster (Sally Eilers) on a Wyoming ranch. After being kidnapped, Tony escapes and discovers his true father (James Kirkwood) and learns that he was raised by another man (Robert Warwick) who was in love with his mother.[1][2]'
'drama','Wall Street trader Jerry Stafford (Fredric March) is a lucky man to have a very efficient and whitty secretary: Julia Traynor (Claudette Colbert), who manages nearly all spheres of her Boss'' life. Her fiancé Philip Craig (Monroe Owsley) works too in the Wall Street broker milieu. Friend Monty Dunn (Charlie Ruggles) hangs around in the different locations with a girl, Doris Brown (Ginger Rogers), defining her a little dumb, like the office of Jerry, the Wall Street location. When Jerry tries to kiss Julia during their lunch in the office, he realizes that he feels more than simple fun-relationship. But Julia wants a husband, young and full of hope. So Jerry leaves charging her to call Miss Maybelle Worthington (Avonne Taylor) to let her know he will pick her up in half an hour, and that she please dress nicely. The same woman, for which Jerry asked Julia to choose a bracelet, shortly before lunch. He leaves and the frost between boss and secretary is huge. Monty Dunn appears with Doris Brown at the restaurant, where Julia and Phillip are meeting after the flop of Jerry. After a while Jerry arrives with Miss Worthington, and they realizes that some of them knew each other. Julia and Philip decide to marry on Monday. Jerry''s persistent demands at the back of her mind. Arriving at the office late she has to tell Stafford that she has married, so his proposal remains untaken. Jerry fires her, he could''t work with her knowing she is married to another man, while he wants her so much. After a year, on her first wedding anniversary Julia invites Jerry over. But he who had forgotten how lovely she its, falls again for her kissing her in the garden. Meantime Monty has told Philip that their investment in silk has lost. Philip tries to make a public scene, but Julia prevents it. Julia flies to Washington by train. Philip searches for her at Jerry''s place. When he doesn''t find her he thinks Jerry lies, and shoots him. Jerry somehow covers him. Julia is picked by the police in the train and brought back to New York. At Police Headquarters when Julia and Philip are left alone, Philip confesses all to Julia, who is terrified. For the Police'' recording devices it''s enough proof. Philip is arrested. But Jerry tries to do everything in his power during the trial not to incriminate him. Finally Phillip is free. But Julia has decided to leave Philip. When he comes home she has already packed her things. And then Jerry rings the bell, and while Philip thinks all was organized from him, they tell him, that they didn''t see each other since the night when all happened. But they leave together, while Jerry talks about the south of France, where they wanted to go...'
'drama','A widowed fisherman (Huston) falls in love with and marries a younger woman (Chandler), who falls in love with the man''s son (Montgomery).'
'romantic comedy','In Latin America, Larry O''Brien (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.) sees Diane Forsythe (Loretta Young) and quickly falls in love. She, however, is engaged to marry the much older Clive Lattimer (Edmund Breon). Larry discovers that her motive is to save her stepfather, Areal Pacheco (Henry Kolker), from being shot. Pacheco, the Minister of Finance, has embezzled $200,000 from the national treasury, and an audit is scheduled soon. Lattimer is extremely wealthy and willing to make up the shortfall in exchange for Diane. To keep Larry from disrupting the arrangement, Pacheco has his butler Luigi (Boris Karloff) arrange Diane''s kidnapping (to Lattimer''s country estate). Larry rescues Diane and leaves her in the care of his friend, Archie Lester (Claud Allister). Then he telephones a newspaper to report his "ransom" demand of $200,000. Citizens demand Pacheco pay the sum, but Larry points out that Diane''s fiance is the only person in the country with access to that much money. Lattimer refuses at first, but soon caves in to the outrage. Larry collects the money at the arranged dropoff point and later presents it to Pacheco, who then cancels Diane''s engagement to Lattimer.'
'romance','After causing yet another scandal, Kay Dowling (Carole Lombard), the spoiled daughter of wealthy New Yorkers, is given a stark choice by her fed-up father (Charles Trowbridge), go to his ranch in Ursula, Wyoming, (to avoid being named a co-respondent in a divorce case) or be disinherited. Kay''s fiance, Herbert Forrest (Lester Vail), proposes getting married immediately, but she chooses the ranch. Later, while spending her days on the ranch with her good-humored aunt Bessie, Kay falls reluctantly in love with one of her father''s cowhands, Tom McNair (Gary Cooper), and impulsively marries him. When her father learns of the union, he disowns her. Kay and Tom are forced to live in a one-room shack while Tom tries to expand his cattle herd. One year later, Kay is unhappy with life on the ranch, and longs for the comforts of her family''s palatial mansion. One day, she receives a telegram from home, and tells Tom that her father is sick and that she must be with him. Back in New York, Kay writes a letter to Tom, asking for a divorce. Soon after, Tom arrives at the estate and explains that he left the ranch to become a professional bronco rider in a rodeo. Kay assumes that he never received the letter, and Tom never mentions it. One night during a party, Tom overhears the guests making fun of him and he tells Kay she can have her divorce. Later, as she realizes that life with Herbert would amount to a life of playing golf, Kay visits Tom at the rodeo. During his performance, he is thrown from a bronco and hurt. Kay rushes to Tom''s side, and the two reconcile and decide to return to the ranch.'
'drama','Anne Vincent is a woman who has modern ideas about love. She believes that marriage kills love and leads to unhappiness and, inevitably, divorce. Although her boyfriend, Dick Ives II, and his father, Dick Sr., try to persuade Anne to get married, she resists their arguments. Anne and Dick live together for a while without getting married but eventually Anne caves in to avoid scandal and agrees to marry Dick. Anne receives a telegram from her ex-boyfriend, Price Baines, saying that he wants to visit her. Dick tries to prevent Anne from seeing him, but she does so anyway. Price tries to persuade Anne not to get married, tells her that he is still in love with her and warns her that she will be unhappy if she marries, but she remains unconvinced. Anne marries Dick and eventually they settle down and start to behave like a typical married couple. They tire of each other, avoid each other and fight over silly things. Dick becomes interested in Margie True, who tells him that she is in love with him. Soon, he begins a torrid affair with her. He spends less and less time with Anne. Eventually Anne tells Dick that they need to separate for a time. Dick tires of Margie while Anne does the same with Price, who attempts to rekindle their old relationship. The separation makes Dick and Anne realize how much they love each other. They resume their relationship, initially as a courtship. Eventually, they cohabitate as husband and wife.'
'drama, musical','The plot of the United Artists release centers on fashion designer Geraldine Trent (Swanson), who takes up with novelist Tony Blake (Lyon) after leaving her former beau Jim Woodward because of his many indiscretions with other women. Tony has indicated he has no interest in dating a woman with a past, so Geraldine remains mum about her affair with Jim, until her younger sister Joan arrives and announces she''s engaged—to Jim. Madcap complications ensue as Geraldine tries to keep her secret from Tony while convincing her sister to rid herself of her womanizing fiancé in favor of simple country boy Buster Collins.[2]'
'drama','Yvonne Valbret (Garbo) is a Parisian kept woman who poses as an artist''s model. She falls in love with a young student of foreign diplomacy, André Montell, played by Robert Montgomery. When André learns of her past and her multiple lovers, he leaves her. But finding Yvonne living in poverty when their paths cross again, he pays for her to live in his country cottage outside Paris and they engage in a Platonic relationship. He soon reveals his intent to marry another woman as Yvonne begs him not to desert her. André eventually realizes he loves Yvonne and decides to choose love over career. When he comes to the cottage to tell her, he is met by one of Yvonne''s old lovers pleading with her to return to him. She immediately decides to marry André, but fearing their relationship will ruin his career, she chooses her old amour and writes André a farewell note while he is sleeping.'
'film noir','After lightweight prizefighter Kid Mason (Ayres) loses his opening fight, golddigging wife Rose (Harlow) leaves him for Hollywood. Without her around, Mason trains seriously and starts winning. Naturally, Rose returns and worms her way back into his life, despite the misgivings of manager George Regan (Armstrong). Eventually, she cons Mason into dumping Regan and replacing him with her secret lover Lewis (Miljan), even though he has almost no experience in the fight game. To make matters worse, Mason''s high living and neglect of his training threatens his latest title defense.'
'comedy','Rodney Martin sets up a soap business to rival his father. With the help of an advertising expert and his secretary, Mary, he develops a successful marketing campaign. His father ends up buying the company from him, while Rodney and Mary fall in love.[2]'
'comedy','Lord Robert Brummell (William Haines), a bachelor is ordered by his wealthy uncle Lord George Hampton (C. Aubrey Smith) to settle down with a wife. Not wishing to tie himself down to any one girl, Brummell endeavors to prove that no woman is worthy of him by pretending to be a gigolo.[1]'
'drama','Arthur Parker (Robert McWade) is a wealthy steel magnate who is relating the story to his snobbish wife and spoiled daughter of one of his plant supervisors who fearlessly rushed in and saved the lives of two of his fellow co-workers. When his wife, Henrietta (Florence Roberts), asks if he rewarded the young man, Parker shows his astonishment by saying that the hero had refused the thousand dollars he had offered. When the daughter, Dot (Dorothy Mackaill), remarks that she would like to meet a man like that, the father tells her not to worry, she will, for he is coming to dinner that very evening. Henrietta is aghast at having to socialize with someone not of their class, but Parker, who is a better judge of character, assures her that all will be well. During dinner, Dot is smitten with the young man, Dick Brunton (Joel McCrea). She makes a bet with her father that she can get him to marry her within four weeks. The father takes that bet, and lo and behold she wins Dick’s heart and gets him to accept her proposal of marriage by the deadline, despite his fears of their different social circumstances. After the wedding, Parker sends the newlyweds on an expensive honeymoon to Europe, after which they return to their lavish home, also supplied by Parker. Parker also promotes Dick, but within six months, his new lifestyle threatens to emasculate Dick, who loses interest in his career and finds himself dominated by Dot''s vapid, social whirl of bridge games, cocktail parties and passive acceptance of life as a "kept husband". This does not sit well with the proud husband, and when Parker offers him a chance to prove himself with a new position in St. Louis, he jumps at the chance. When told of the opportunity however, Dot is less than enthusiastic, not wanting to leave her friends and social circle. She refuses to agree to accompany Dick. Dick decides to go to St. Louis, with or without Dot, making her incredibly upset. Not knowing what to do, he goes to ask advice from his mother (Mary Carr), who tells him that he needs to reconcile with Dot before he leaves for St. Louis. Meanwhile, Dot has agreed to meet with a former beau, Charles Bates (Bryant Washburn), who attempts to seduce her. When she returns to their house the following morning, Dick questions her regarding her whereabouts. She lies to him, and he knows it, since he had seen her with Washburn the prior evening. Furious, he storms out, saying their marriage is over, and intending to resign from Parker’s company. Realizing her love for him, Dot eventually finds Dick at the rail station, about to leave for St. Louis. He has decided to take Parker’s position after all. The husband and wife reconcile, with Dot agreeing to live within the means that Dick''s salary can provide.'
'romantic comedy','Kiki (Mary Pickford) is a hapless French chorus girl who has just been fired from her job. She doesn''t accept it and goes to see producer Victor Randall (Reginald Denny). He, however, is really busy and is annoyed by her presence. To get her out of his office, he promises her job back. Before she leaves, she drops her purse and clippings of Victor shaped in hearts fall out. It becomes clear Kiki is secretly in love with him. When the next show becomes a disaster because of Kiki, she is again fired. She goes complaining at Victor Randall''s office for the second time. He is now charmed by her and invites Kiki to his apartment. There, she notices a photo of his ex-wife Paulette Vaile (Margaret Livingston). He kisses her, but she is insulted and slaps him. She hides in another room and makes clear she feels used and thinks Victor is still not over Paulette. She eventually falls asleep in the room and finds a letter from Paulette the next morning. Although it''s for Victor, she reads it. It says she is sorry about last night and wants to make up with Victor. Kiki becomes jealous and ruins the letter. Meanwhile, the servants are irritated by Kiki and try to get her out of Victor''s apartment. Victor confronts her when the servants inform him Kiki has stolen a few of Paulette''s letters. He eventually finds the letters and reads them. Victor and Kiki have a conversation and flirt for the first time. Kiki becomes angry when Victor receives a phone call from Paulette and answers it. Paulette later visits Victor''s apartment. Kiki is outraged and tells Paulette she is in love with Victor and intends to marry him. Victor catches Kiki intimidating and scaring Paulette and orders her to get out. Victor and Paulette fall in love with each other again, but they find out Kiki hasn''t left the apartment. Kiki pretends to be unconscious. Victor puts her in bed to rest and Kiki kisses him. He tells Paulette he can''t leave Kiki alone. Paulette feels betrayed and leaves him. Victor and Kiki finally fall in love and kiss.'
'drama','Young florist Kathleen Storm (Sylvia Sidney) is instantly the object of desire of a young man standing in front of the shopwindow, where she is arranging flowers. They have two wonderful weeks in their life together before they marry. The same day her criminal ex-boyfriend Kid Athens (Earle Foxe), who heard about her wedding, decides to frame her and her new husband. She and her husband Standish (Gene Raymond) end up in prison. He is sentenced to death penalty on a charge of murder and she to a life sentence. In prison she meets a woman, Susie Thompson (Wynne Gibson), that was Kid Athens girlfriend before her, who after an initial raging jealousy ends up helping her to tell the authorities the truth about Kid Athens and she and her husband''s innocence. Justice wins and the couple can finally have a honeymoon on a ship.'
'drama','Sir Gerald Courtney (Gilbert Emery) is an aristocrat whose son, Russell (John Darrow), prefers to spend his time partying with young women rather than focusing on the promising career he has in architecture. When Russell leaves one evening to revel with the gold-digging Berthine Waller (Margaret Livingston) rather than spending it dining with his father, Sir Gerald is a bit despondent. As he ponders what to do about his wayward son, providence takes a hand. A beautiful destitute young woman, June (Betty Compson), on the verge of entering into the oldest of professions due to her desperation, is being pursued by the London police. Sir Gerald, who was at the window in the first floor watching his son leaving with Berthine Waller, observes how June leaves a taxi on the other side of the street, and is being cornered by the police. As she comes over to his house to knock, he opens the door and welcomes her as an old friend he was expecting, reassuring the Policemen that she is a respectable citizen. After they leave, Sir Gerald invites her to dinner, after she told him her situation. Then he proposes to hire June for a 1000 Pounds to prevent his son to fall into the clutches of Berthine. June does her job beautifully, as Russell leaves Berthine and begins to concentrate on his architectural career, much to his father’s delight. There’s a slight hitch however: June has fallen in love with Sir Gerald, rather than Russell. Devastated, Russell calls Berthine to meet him at his apartment (which is upstairs in the same building where June lives). Seeing all of her work being unwound in a single evening, June lures Russell down to her apartment, where she gets him so drunk that he passes out and spends the night. When Berthine arrives at Russel’s apartment, she has been followed by an ex-lover, Nikolai Rabinoff (Ivan Lebedeff). In a jealous rage, Nikolai kills Berthine. The following morning Russell awakes to find June gone, having vowed to not come between the son and the father. He is also the main suspect in Berthine''s murder. Seeking shelter from his father, Russell refuses to invoke June as his alibi. In order to save him, June steps forward and admits that Russell spent the night in her apartment. Sir Gerald, thinking the worst, renounces his devotion for June, which devastates her, but confirmed what she always feared: that he would never rely on her. June leaves his house, but when Sir Gerald discovers the innocence of Russell’s night spent in her apartment short after, he understands his own mistake and vows to track her down and spend the rest of his life with her.'
'drama','After World War I, pilots Cary Lockwood (Richard Barthelmess), Shep Lambert (David Manners), Bill Talbot (John Mack Brown)and Francis (Elliott Nugent), who are suffering from shell shock, band together in Paris. Feeling they have no future, the men are constantly drunk. One night, as they make the rounds of nightclubs, they meet Nikki (Helen Chandler), a wealthy but aimless woman, who they invite into their group. Later, when an American reporter named Frink (Walter Byron) makes a pass at Nikki, she shows no interest in him. The ex-flyers move to Nikki''s hotel where they continue drinking. Nikki is attracted to Cary She tags along when he goes to a cemetery where he tells her the story of Héloïse and Abelard, star-crossed lovers. When Nikki starts to cry, Cary is sympathetic until she announces that she now has names for her two turtles. With that, Cary suddenly gets angry and decides to leave for Portugal. After learning of his plans, Nikki and the others, including Frink, follow him. On the train, Frink tries to force himself on Nikki but the other men come to her rescue. At a bullfight in Lisbon, Bill rashly leaps into the ring and is fatally gored. With Bill at the hospital, the others visit a carnival where outside a shooting gallery, Cary and Frink quarrel and Frink threatens to shoot Cary. Without thinking, Francis shoots Frink while Shep is fatally wounded in the crossfire. Frightened, Francis disappears and the group is forever split asunder. Cary explains to Nikki that after the war, all they had left was their comradeship. She begs to stay with him.'
'comedy','Sarah Austin (Edna May Oliver) runs a boarding house during the Depression, always on the verge of bankruptcy. Her husband, Joe (Hugh Herbert) is a shiftless person who has never understood the concept of work; he is constantly involving them in get-rich-quick schemes. Their daughter, Alice (Dorothy Lee), has her eyes set on poor young inventor, Larry Owens (Russell Gleason), but her mother wishes she would become involved with Bill Hepburn (John Harron), seemingly from a well-connected family. Sarah''s illusions about Bill, however, are dashed when Bill kidnaps Joe, whom he mistakes for Mr. Pennypacker. Shortly after this, Joe takes Sarah''s life savings, which she has hidden in a lamp, and invests it in an oil well, conned into it by one of Sarah''s boarders, Mr. Phelps (Robert Emmett Keane). When Sarah finds out, she is furious, so Joe goes out and takes a job as a ditch digger. However, much to everyone''s surprise, the oil well actually strikes oil. Believing that they are rich, Sarah and Joe go visit Sarah''s sister, Cassie Palfrey (Louise Mackintosh), who lives in an estate on Long Island. While there, the oil well runs dry, and their newfound wealth evaporates. However, all is not lost, as they find out that one of Joe''s inventions, a tire valve, has attracted an investor, and they will be making over $50,000 per year off the invention, a veritable fortune in 1931.'
'drama','Ivy Stevens (Joan Crawford) is a cafe entertainer in love with a shifty salesman (Neil Hamilton) who deserts her. In attempting to commit suicide, she is saved by Carl (Clark Gable), a Salvation Army officer. Encouraged by Carl, Ivy joins the Salvation Army. When her old flame re-enters her life, Ivy finds she is still attracted and begins another affair with him. Carl steps in and urges Ivy to resume her life with the Salvation Army. Ivy realizes that if she continues the affair, her life will only spiral downward. She drops the affair and resumes her commitment to the Salvation Army.'
'drama, crime','Small-time criminals Caesar Enrico "Rico" Bandello (Edward G. Robinson) and his friend Joe Massara (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.) move to Chicago to seek their fortunes. Rico joins the gang of Sam Vettori (Stanley Fields), while Joe wants to be a dancer. Olga (Glenda Farrell) becomes his dance partner and girlfriend. Joe tries to drift away from the gang and its activities, but Rico makes him participate in the robbery of the nightclub where he works. Despite orders from underworld overlord "Big Boy" (Sidney Blackmer) to all his men to avoid bloodshed, Rico guns down crusading crime commissioner Alvin McClure during the robbery, with Joe as an aghast witness. Rico accuses Sam of becoming soft and seizes control of his organization. Rival boss "Little Arnie" Lorch (Maurice Black) tries to have Rico killed, but Rico is only grazed. He and his gunmen pay Little Arnie a visit, after which Arnie hastily departs for Detroit. The Big Boy eventually gives Rico control of all of Chicago''s Northside. Rico becomes concerned that Joe knows too much about him. He warns Joe that he must forget about Olga and join him in a life of crime. Rico threatens to kill both Joe and Olga unless he accedes, but Joe refuses to give in. Olga calls Police Sergeant Flaherty and tells him Joe is ready to talk, just before Rico and his henchman Otero (George E. Stone) come calling. Rico finds, to his surprise, that he is unable to take his friend''s life. When Otero tries to do the job himself, Rico wrestles the gun away from him, though not before Joe is wounded. Hearing the shot, Flaherty and another cop give chase and kill Otero. With information provided by Olga, Flaherty proceeds to crush Rico''s organization. Desperate and alone, Rico "retreats to the gutter from which he sprang." While hiding in a flophouse, he becomes enraged when he learns that Flaherty has called him a coward in the newspaper. He foolishly telephones the cop to announce he is coming for him. The call is traced, and he is gunned down by Flaherty behind a billboard - an advertisement featuring dancers Joe and Olga - and, dying, utters his final words, "Mother of mercy, is this the end of Rico?"'
'comedy','Sheepish bookstore employee John Miller has become infatuated with a college girl, Julia Winters, he has never met. His love letters to her are accidentally mailed, so Julia comes to visit, under the mistaken impression John is a college track star. While co-worker Marjorie helps continue his deception, John tries to join the school''s team. His wild javelin throw nearly kills other athletes, who chase him off the field. The college''s coach is amazed at how fast John can run. Julia figures out she''s been had. A psychology student, she analyzes John as a boy with an inferiority complex. After the coach finds John and invites him to run, Julia persuades him to race against her old boyfriend, Spike Hoyt, a star athlete and a bully. Majorie eventually talks John into it, even getting him drunk enough to do it.'
'comedy','Richard "Dickie" Smith (Edward Everett Horton), is a seemingly respectable defense attorney by day, who turns into a philandering Don Juan when the clock strikes 8 o’clock. His wife, Madeline (Esther Ralston), has been away for several months, and is not expected back anytime soon. However, Madeline''s mother, Mrs. Mantel (Maude Eburne) is staying with the Smiths, in an effort to curtail the possibility of any straying by Richard. Unbeknownst to her, he has made plans to go out on the town that night with his new, sultry secretary Kitty Minter (Patsy Ruth Miller), and his new sexy client, Diane O''Dare (Laura La Plante), who, a lonely wife herself, wishes to divorce her husband for neglect. The issue is how can he go out on the town without alerting his mother-in-law. An issue which is seemingly resolved by the arrival at his home of a vaudeville impersonator: Felix, the Great Zero (also played by Edward Everett Horton). Felix is seeking permission to impersonate the famous lawyer on-stage. At first reluctant, Richard, noticing the striking resemblance between himself and the actor, realizes he might have a way to deceive Mrs. Mantel. In order to obtain his approval, Felix must agree to impersonate him at his house that evening, while he goes out. While Richard goes out on the town, he discovers that Diane''s husband is none other than Felix. Meanwhile, Madeline arrives home unannounced and early.Thinking that he is about to be exposed, Felix phones the nightclub where Richard has taken the two women for dinner and drinks. As he waits for the return phone call, much to his surprise, rather than exposing him as an imposter, Madeline begins to come on to him. He attempts to resist, trying to hold out until he can speak to Richard, but he succumbs to her charms just as the phone begins ringing. When Richard returns home the next morning, Felix is still there. He is followed closely by a very inebriated Diane, with whom it seems he has spent his time away from home. When Felix recognizes Diane, and Richard understands that Felix has spent the night at his house, both men believe that his look-a-like has slept with the others'' wife. After a series of events, Smith ends up chasing Zero with a loaded gun. Meanwhile, Andrews, the Butler, (Spencer Charters), thinks he must have the DT’s, seeing double of his employer. The truth comes out when Madeline admits that she knew it wasn''t Richard all along, and other than the kissing, nothing happened between the two of them. Diane admits that she spent the night in the cab, riding around, and not with Richard. Reconciled, Richard is cured of his wandering ways and Felix and Diane are reunited.'
'drama','Recovering from a World War I head wound, soldier Bill Childers is paid a hospital visit by Rosa Duchene, a renowned French singer and actress who is contributing to the war effort. It was love at first sight, but Bill does not see her again for 12 years, during which time his combat injury has left him almost totally blind. In the lumber business with partner Elmer Graham, word comes that the famous Rosa is coming to town to perform. Bill excitedly brings her flowers, but is duped by two French actors into believing that another woman, known as Poll, is actually Rosa. Bill goes permanently blind and the haughty Rosa has no interest in him. Poll falls for Bill, but during her impersonation of the other woman, Bill recognizes their disparity in height. He is angered by her deception, he angrily leaves. An auto accident results in a serious leg injury for Poll but the sudden restoration of Bill''s eyesight. Both agree to give their relationship one more try.'
'drama','In San Francisco, private investigator Sam Spade (Ricardo Cortez) and his partner Miles Archer (Walter Long) are approached by Ruth Wonderly (Bebe Daniels) to follow a man, Floyd Thursby, who allegedly ran off with her younger sister. The two accept the assignment because the money is good, even though they disbelieve her story. Late that night, police detective Tom Polhaus (J. Farrell MacDonald) informs Spade that Archer has been shot and killed while tailing Thursby, but Spade turns down the opportunity to examine the body at the scene. As he''s leaving, he has a brief conversation in Chinese with a man loitering in a doorway. Later, Polhaus and his superior, Lt. Dundy (Robert Elliott), visit Spade at his apartment. Thursby has been killed, and they want to know where Spade''s been in the last few hours — they suspect him of killing Thursby to avenge the death of his partner. With no real evidence against Spade, they leave. The next day, Spade calls on Ruth Wonderly in an attempt to find out her real reasons for hiring them. She uses several different ploys to keep Spade on the case in spite of the two murders, but Spade sees through them. Despite this, he gets only a little information from her: Thursby was her accomplice whom she no longer trusted, and she feels she''s in danger — but she won''t tell Spade what she and Thursby were trying to pull off. Frustrated, Spade begins to leave, but then thinks better of it. He takes $500 from Wonderly, supposedly the last of her money, and goes. At the office, Spade tells his secretary, Effie (Una Merkel) to have Archer''s name removed from the door, and he receives a visit from a Dr. Joel Cairo (Otto Matieson), who offers Spade $5,000 if he can retrieve an enamel figurine of a black bird that he is trying to recover for the "rightful owner". Not knowing anything about this statuette, Spade plays along, overpowering Cairo when he pulls a gun and attempts to frisk him and search the office. Nevertheless, he agrees to try to recover the statuette. That night, at his apartment, Spade questions Wonderly about Cairo and the black bird. Nervous about Cairo''s offer and afraid of losing Spade''s help, she begins to attempt to seduce him, but is interrupted when Dundy and Polhaus arrive. Spade keeps them outside the door as they question him about his relationship with Archer''s wife, Iva (Thelma Todd), with whom Spade has been having an affair. They are about to leave when Wonderly screams, and they rush in to find her holding a gun on Cairo. Spade laughs the incident off with a preposterous story which nonetheless gets the police to leave, with Cairo in tow, allowing Spade and Wonderly to continue their "interrogation". The next morning, as Wonderly sleeps in his bed, Spade lifts her key and thoroughly searches her apartment, finding nothing. Returning to his own place, Spade gets a visit from Iva Archer. Spade tries to get rid of her, but she sees Wonderly in the bedroom doorway and leaves in a huff, threatening to tell everything she knows to Lt. Dundy. Spade receives a note from Casper Gutman (Dudley Digges), inviting him to come and talk about the black bird. Over drinks and cigars, Spade learns the history and value of the statuette, which is encrusted with precious jewels covered over with enamel, and that Gutman is the mastermind behind the attempt to steal the bird. Spade lies to Gutman that "for the right price" he can deliver the figurine in a couple of days, and they make a deal which Gutman seals with a $1000 bill. Just then, Cairo arrives and tells Gutman privately that Spade does not have the falcon, that Captain Jacoby (Agostino Borgato), whose ship La Paloma arrives from Hong Kong that night, does. Gutman then slips Spade a mickey in a celebratory drink, and retrieves his $1000. Later that night, Spade arrives back in his office, where he finds Effie asleep behind his desk. Suddenly, a man staggers in, collapses to the floor and dies — it''s Captain Jacoby, having been shot several times. The suitcase he was carrying has the precious black bird in it. Spade checks the bag at a baggage check and sends himself the ticket in the mail. Called in to see the District Attorney (Morgan Wallace) because of what Iva''s been telling the police, Spade stonewalls them, and is given 24 hours to wrap up the case and bring in the real killers. Wonderly lures Spade into his apartment, where Cairo and Gutman are waiting for him with guns. Knowing that Spade has the falcon, Gutman gives him ten $1,000 bills in an envelope, but Spade insists there also has to be a "fall guy" to give the police to account for the murders (Archer, Thursby and Jacoby), and suggests Gutman''s gunman, Wilmer Cook (Dwight Frye), as the patsy. Gutman rejects this idea, and Spade then puts forward Cairo as a candidate. Cairo counters that Spade''s been paid and should bring forward the bird, and they all settle in to wait for the morning, when Spade says he can produce it. As Wonderly leaves to make coffee and sandwiches, Gutman accuses her of stealing one of the bills from the envelope, prompting Spade to have her strip. When he finds she doesn''t have the bill on her, he accuses Gutman of palming it, which Gutman admits. Now having the upper hand, Spade tells Gutman that Wilmer will be the fall guy, which Cairo and Gutman discuss in a whispered conference. Goaded by Spade, Wilmer pulls his gun, Spade knocks him out — and Gutman and Cairo agree to Spade''s proposal. After Spade calls Effie and asks her to pick up the suitcase with the falcon in the morning and bring it to them, Gutman explains to him how Wilmer killed Thursby and Jacoby. When the bag shows up, Wilmer escapes out the window while the conspirators are frantically opening it and examining the black bird. They soon determine that it is a fake — they''ve been duped by the previous owner — and Gutman and Cairo decide to make another attempt to steal it. As they leave, Gutman takes back his $10,000 from Spade at gunpoint. Spade immediately calls Detective Polhaus and tells him to pick up Gutman, Cairo and Wilmer: he''ll provide Wilmer''s guns as evidence. Confronting Wonderly, Spade accuses her of killing Archer to throw suspicion on Thursby and get him out of the way. She admits it, and Spade tells her that he''s going to turn her in for the murder, despite their love for each other. When Dundy and Polhaus show up, they reveal that Wilmer shot Gutman and Cairo dead before being apprehended. Spade gives them Wilmer''s guns, tells them that Wonderly killed Archer, and they take her away. We then learn from a newspaper article that Spade "caused a sensation at [Wonderly''s] trial when he produced Lee Fu Gow, Chinese merchant, the only eye-witness to the Archer killing, who positively identified Miss Wonderly as the murderess". Spade goes to visit Wonderly in prison to tell her that he''s been made Chief Investigator for the District Attorney''s office. Spade instructs the prison matron (played by Lucille Ward) to treat Wonderly well and give her whatever she wants. When the matron asks who will pay for the special treatment, Spade tells her to send the bill to the D.A.''s office: "I''ll OK it."'
'comedy','Raymond Dabney (Montgomery) returns to a mixed reaction from his middle-class family in London after serving a sentence at HM Prison Wormwood Scrubs for stealing a motorcar. His mother (Beryl Mercer) and the family servant (Maude Eburne) are delighted to see him, but his father (C. Aubrey Smith) and brother Claude (Reginald Owen) are less so. His father is particularly disappointed in him, having sent him to Cambridge. The two men offer him £500 to leave the country and never return; it seems Claude is engaged to a rich widow, and they are anxious to avoid any scandal that might endanger the marriage. Raymond turns it down, however, and departs the same day. He obtains work as a sheriff''s officer, helping a bailiff serve a writ on Crystal Wetherby (Purcell), a woman in serious debt, taking possession of her property. The bailiff instructs him to remain in Crystal''s mansion to keep an eye on the seized property until the next day, but also to provide any reasonable assistance to the woman. Crystal and her sole remaining servant, Clara (Greenwood), have him take the place of the departed butler. Then Crystal mentions the name of her fiancé, none other than Claude Dabney. Claude is bringing his parents to dinner that night to meet her. The situation is awkward for all the Dabneys. Meanwhile, Crystal''s admirer, the wealthy and generous (if disreputable) Sir Charles Cartwright (Alan Mowbray), shows up. Crystal has carefully kept the news of her engagement from him. She manages to get the jealous man to leave without him meeting her dinner guests. Before Claude leaves, he informs Crystal that her butler has a crooked past (without revealing they are brothers), but she refuses to discharge him (without revealing he is actually in possession of the premises). To complicate matters even further, that night Raymond seduces a willing Crystal. The next morning, Raymond prepares Crystal''s breakfast in bed, though Clara insists on taking it up to her. When Crystal removes the cover, she sees that the bacon has been arranged to spell the word "LOVE". Clara picks up Crystal''s undergarments scattered around the room, noting that her chemise is torn. Crystal does not correct Clara''s incredulous assumption that it was Claude who ripped it. Raymond then proceeds to sabotage Crystal''s other relationships. When Sir Charles arrives, Raymond informs him of her engagement, causing the latter to tear up a check for £1000 he was about to give Crystal. Claude then offers his brother £1000 to leave England forever; Raymond insists on being paid an additional £200 for immediate expenses. Then Raymond shows Claude the writ, proving Crystal is not the wealthy woman she pretends to be. Panic-stricken, Claude tells Raymond to reveal to her that they are brothers (in order to break off the engagement without being sued for breach of promise) and hastily departs. Sir Charles returns, having discovered that his love for Crystal is too strong, but she declines his proposal of marriage. When the bailiff shows up, Raymond pays off the outstanding debt, collects his wages, and informs Crystal that they can be married on the ship taking them to a fresh start in a new country. She reminds him of her past, but he is undeterred. She then happily embraces him.'
'romance','In 1930''s Paris, American Michael Trevor (William Powell) poses as a novelist but is actually a former newspaper man who took the fall for some scam in the States and had to flee the country. Embittered, he now prints a weekly scandal sheet and blackmails expats to keep their names out of his rag. While extorting $2000 from the wealthy Harry Taylor (Guy Kibbee) (a scam done so smoothly that Harry thinks Michael a great friend who has done him a big favor), Michael meets Harry''s niece, Mary Kendall (Carole Lombard), and the two feel an instant mutual attraction. Mary has a boyfriend, Frank Reynolds (Lawrence Gray), but she is not passionate about him. Michael''s partners in crime are Irene Hoffa (Wynne Gibson) and Fred (George Chandler). Irene is a former flame who is still not over Michael. She needs money to keep her brother out of prison and proposes that they extort more money from Harry by embroiling Mary in a scandal. Michael resists - he has a rule never to target women - but then reluctantly agrees. While Frank is away on business, Michael spends time with Mary and they fall in love. She tries to write a breakup letter to Frank, but is unable to finish it. Worried that Mary would not love him if she knew who he really is, Michael tells her his whole life story. Mary says that it is all in the past; they love each other and nothing else matters. Michael tells Irene that he and Mary are going to be married and that he is done with his life of crime. Irene says that someday his past will come out and Mary will then be the wife of a criminal. These words weigh on Michael and he realizes that, for her own sake, he cannot marry Mary. Michael tells Harry that he was behind the earlier scam and demands a further $10,000 or he will print a piece about his planned wedding to Mary. Harry is angry and Mary is hurt and confused, but Michael is determined to go ahead with his scheme. Harry pays him off with a check and Mary collapses in tears. After seeing how much Michael cares for Mary, Irene decides to instead get the money needed for her brother by selling her jewelry. She also tells the police that Michael is behind the scandal sheet and they give him 24 hours to leave France. Mary and Frank sail back to Pittsburgh, a conspicuous engagement ring on her hand. Michael heads to Capetown, and agrees to let Irene come along. Aboard ship, he tears up the $10,000 check.'
'drama','In 1917, France is embroiled in World War I. Dubois, head of the French spy bureau, offers to spare the life of a captured agent (an uncredited Mischa Auer) if he will reveal who he is protecting. Dubois suspects it is Mata Hari, a celebrated exotic dancer, but the prisoner chooses execution by firing squad. Lieutenant Alexis Rosanoff of the Imperial Russian Air Force lands in Paris after a dangerous flight over enemy territory, bringing important dispatches from Russia. He persuades his superior, General Serge Shubin, to take him to see Mata Hari perform that night. Rosanoff is instantly smitten by her (as are most of the men of Paris). By youthful exuberance and good looks, he persuades her to spend the night with him. However, the next morning, she makes it clear to him that it was a one-time dalliance. Carlotta secretly instructs Mata Hari to report to Andriani, their spymaster. Andriani orders her to find out from General Shubin the contents of the dispatches Rosanoff brought. Meanwhile, when Dubois discloses his suspicions about Mata Hari to Shubin, the general laughs them off as ridiculous. However, Shubin has himself passed secret information to his lover Mata Hari, whom he is expecting for a private dinner. Rosanoff arrives unexpectedly, in case Shubin has further instructions before the pilot returns to Russia with more important dispatches. Upon learning of Rosanoff''s mission, Mata Hari arranges for a confederate to steal the dispatches, photograph them and then return them undetected, while she keeps a puzzled, but delighted Rosanoff occupied. This is the opportunity for which Dubois has been waiting. He informs Shubin of Mata Hari''s recent activities, inciting his jealousy. She comes to see the general, but is unable to persuade him she was only doing her job. In fact, she has fallen in love with the younger man. Furious, Shubin telephones Dubois and confirms that Mata Hari is a spy. She shoots him dead before he can carry through on his threat to implicate Rosanoff. Mata Hari goes into hiding, but when Andriani informs her that Rosanoff crashed and was seriously injured on his way back to Russia, she defies him and resigns to go to her love. Rosanoff has been blinded, but may recover his sight. After a joyful reunion (in which she does not reveal her desperate predicament), she is arrested by Dubois. At her trial, her lawyer, Major Caron, points out that Dubois'' case is weak; all his testimony is second-hand. However, when Dubois threatens to have Rosanoff brought in to testify that he met her outside Shubin''s office just after the murder, Mata Hari gives up. She is sentenced to death. She writes to Rosanoff, telling him that she cannot see him for a while, as she has to go to a sanatorium for her health. Shortly before her execution, Rosanoff is brought to her. The jailor and the attending nuns all maintain the pretense that they are in a sanatorium. Rosanoff tells the prisoner that he will likely see again and he looks forward to their future life together once she has recovered her health. Finally, Mata Hari is taken away to face the firing squad, with Rosanoff under the impression that she is going into surgery for a routine operation.'
'drama','Julia Cavanaugh is a formerly rich socialite who is heavily in debt. She meets Count Ivan Karloff, a Russian con-man, whom she hopes to marry to relieve her financial problems. They get engaged and he seduces her but when he finds out that she has no money, he abandons her. Shortly afterwards, she meets a retired bootlegger named Flashy Madden, a rough type who offers to pay off her debts if she will teach him how to be a gentleman. She replies that she can only teach him how to behave like one, not how to be one, but she accepts the offer. Julia is being courted by the son of a senator and although she is uncertain, she knows that it will benefit her precarious situation and finally accepts. Just as the engagement is about to be announced, Flashy tells Julia that he is in love with someone and can she help him find the words to tell her. They perform a mock proposal together and just as Flashy is about to do it for real, she tells him about her up-coming engagement. Flashy is disappointed but wishes her well. The engagement is announced in the press and the count reads about it. He appears at Julia''s apartment and attempts to blackmail her. Flashy is in an adjoining room and overhears the interchange. He tells Julia that he will take care of it and takes the money to Karloff''s lodgings. An argument ensues over relinquishing indiscreet letters from Julia and Karloff pulls out a gun and is shot by Flashy in the struggle over the gun. Flashy is arrested but refuses to say anything in order to protect Julia. He does tell his defense counsel, however, and the lawyer goes to see Julia about it. Julia agrees to testify even though it will destroy her reputation. Over Flashy''s protests and outbursts in court, she gives testimony about what happened. Her fiancé is in the spectators gallery and on hearing the truth, he leaves the court and ends the engagement. Flashy is acquitted on the grounds of self-defense and is released. He decides to go to Florida and goes to say goodbye to Julia. Julia repeats the same words that Flashy had spoken to her in the mock-proposal, saying that there is a man, the greatest gentleman she has ever known, with whom she is in love and whom she doesn''t know how to tell. They embrace and kiss.[4]'
'drama, crime','A destitute Marthe Preston is in dire straits in Paris until gambler Richard Dorval comes to her aid. In gratitude, she agrees to a scheme of Dorval''s to seduce and wed his rival, "Diamond Johnny" Silk, then help ruin Johnny''s horse-racing business interests. Marthe''s inside information enables Dorval and an accomplice, bookie Joe Farley, to bribe Johnny''s jockeys to deliberately lose races or to help them influence the odds. Johnny learns the truth and demands she leave. Martha has fallen in love with her husband, however, so she pretends to go along with a plot to poison Johnny''s horse, double-crossing Dorval and rejoicing in Johnny''s triumph.'
'musical','In the years before World War I, a love affair takes place between an American pilot named Jack Ames (Jack Whiting) and a French spy named Madeleine Aubert (Irene Delroy). Madeleine leaves her American fiancé to join her father (John St. Polis), another French spy, at an estate in Germany. Her father instructs her to accept the invitation of a Prussian officer, Eric von Coburg (Bramwell Fletcher), to live at his estate for a month. Jack, believing that Madeleine no longer loves him, joins the Lafayette Escadrille, a squadron of French and American flyers. His first duty is to take a French spy, dressed as a Prussian officer, over the lines. The spy is wounded during the crossing, however, and Jack must take his place. The French spy tells Jack that another French spy will signal him on the piano, playing a happy tune if danger threatens and sad music if the house is safe. Jack puts on the spy''s uniform and arrives to find Madeleine at the piano. After Madeleine explains her mission, they continue to exchange messages. The Germans, however, become suspicious of Madeleine and on a night Jack is set to visit, she is entertaining officers of the German intelligence. One of them asks her to play sad music. Realizing that this will place Jack in danger, she signals Jack in Morse code with her left hand. The officers discover the trick, and Jack and Madeleine are captured, accompanying her father to the firing squad.'
'drama','Millie (Helen Twelvetrees) is a naive young woman who marries a wealthy man from New York, Jack Maitland (James Hall). Three years later, unhappy in her marriage due to her husband''s continued infidelity, she asks for and receives a divorce. Because of her pride, she does not want his money, but she also does not want to deprive her daughter of a comfortable lifestyle. She allows Jack and his mother (Charlotte Walker) to retain custody of Millie''s daughter Connie (Anita Louise). Focusing on her career, she rises through the hierarchy of the hotel where she is employed, shunning the attention of the rich banker Jimmy Damier (John Halliday), preferring the attentions of the reporter Tommy Rock (Robert Ames), although, due to her prior sour relationship, she refuses to marry him. Eventually, Millie is promoted to the head of operations for the hotel. At the same time, Tommy is offered a lucrative position at the bank by Damier as a favor to Millie. However, at the celebration party, Millie discovers that Tommy, just like Maitland, is cheating on her. Betrayed a second time, Millie becomes very bitter. With her female cohorts, Helen and Angie (Lilyan Tashman and Joan Blondell, respectively), she becomes a woman who loves a good time, floating from man to man. This goes on for several years, until she hears that Damier has taken an interest in her teen-age daughter, Connie, who bears a striking resemblance to her. Millie warns Damier to leave her daughter alone, but, although he promises to stay away from Connie, he ignores Millie''s warning and takes Connie to a remote lodge to seduce her. Millie is tipped off, goes to the lodge with a gun, confronts Jimmy and kills him. In the ensuing murder trial, Millie tries to keep her daughter''s name out of the press and claims not to remember why she shot Jimmy. She says that another woman ran out of the lodge after the shot, but claims that she did not see who the woman was and has no idea as to her identity. The prosecution thus claims that Millie''s motive was jealousy of Jimmy''s romantic relationship with this unknown other woman. Millie''s friends, however, help to bring out the truth, and when the jury finds out that Millie''s true motive was to protect her daughter from Jimmy''s lascivious intentions, they acquit her. In the end, Millie is reunited with her daughter and her estranged husband''s family.'
'comedy, drama','Wealthy car manufacturer James Alden (George Arliss) is forced to retire by his physician, Dr. Harvey (J. C. Nugent). However, idleness soon bores him. He takes the advice of brash life insurance salesman Schofield (James Cagney) and buys half interest in a gas station from Peterson (Noah Beery) without telling his wife Laura (real-life spouse Florence Arliss) or socialite daughter Barbara ''Babs'' Alden (Evalyn Knapp). As he is known nationwide, he uses the alias Charles Miller. He and new partner William ''Bill'' Merrick (David Manners) quickly discover that they have been swindled. A new highway opens the next day and Peterson''s new gas station takes nearly all their business away. Refusing to give up, James convinces Bill to borrow $1000 from his aunt to build a new gas station right across the street from Peterson''s. Bill is an architect, so he does the design work. With James'' business sense, they thrive, while Peterson languishes. One day, Babs stops at the station for gas. Bill recognizes her (they met once at a dance when they were attending the same university) and strikes up a conversation. Soon, Babs is a frequent customer. James is secretly pleased, as he disapproved of the rich idler she had been dating, Carter Andrews (Bramwell Fletcher), but publicly he discourages his daughter from seeing someone not of their lofty social rank. In the end, Peterson buys James and Bill out (at a substantial profit to them). Bill finally works up the courage to speak to Babs'' father about marrying her and is stunned to learn his future in-law''s identity.'
'drama','Florence Fallon is outraged when church elders, in order to make way for a younger preacher, fire her minister father after his many years of selfless service. Following her father''s death, she tells the congregation what she thinks of their ingratitude and hypocrisy. Her bitter, impassioned speech impresses Bob Hornsby, who convinces her to become a phony evangelist so they can squeeze donations out of gullible believers. Promoted as Sister Fallon, Florence then travels about the country with Bob, who manages her "Temple of Happiness". Soon she attracts a devoted national following, but the religious sham comes tumbling down once she meets and falls in love with John Carson, a blind war veteran. When Florence is blackmailed by Bob, she tells John of her charade. John then puts a plan in motion to expose Hornsby and the organization'
'comedy','On board an ocean liner to America, four stowaways are involuntarily pressed into service as toughs for a pair of feuding gangsters while constantly trying to evade the ship''s crew.[4] Prior to this development, the film has no real plot, with the Brothers merely causing unending uproar. Except in the credits and in the screenplay, the Brothers'' characters have no names in this film. They are referred to simply as "the stowaways". After arriving stateside, one of the gangsters kidnaps the other''s daughter, leaving it up to the brothers to save the day.[5]'
'comedy','El Brendel plays the dual role of Silent McGee, a tough gangster, and Mr. Oscar Lemon, a mild-mannered Swede who coincidentally looks exactly like the gangster McGee. Silent McGee disguises himself as a Swedish immigrant while running from the law, causing Mr. Lemon to be mistaken for the wanted man. Fifi D''Orsay stars as Julie LaRue, a comedic vamp who pursues the comparatively innocent Mr. Lemon.'
'mystery','A murder during a game of charades at a society party leads the police to begin the hunt through the guest-list for a motive and culprit, involving a changed will and booby-trapped telephones. The killer strikes several more times to conceal his or her identity, until all is revealed.'
'mystery','When a wealthy woman dies, she is buried with a loud horn in her crypt due to her fear of premature burial. Before her will can be read, her heirs start to die mysteriously.'
'drama','In Panama, infamous nightclub hostess Carlotta (Tallulah Bankhead) kills in a struggle a man in self-defence and is put on trial for murder. Her defence counsel is Dick Grady (Fredric March), a lawyer who has become an alcoholic. When he proves Carlotta''s innocence, however, Dick regains respect and new employment through Roger Metcalf (Harry Davenport (actor)). He also manages to save Carlotta from committing suicide. He lends her money, and they both dream up a new identity for her as "Ann Trevor," and she moves to New York. Through various letters and repayment checks, Dick learns that "Ann Trevor" is happy and successful and he soon realizes he is in love with her. In the meantime Ann is successfully working in New York as interior decorator, sharing an apartment with her boss, Helen Grace (Lily Cahill). One customer, Larry Gordon (Scott Kolk), is so enthusiastic about Ann''s work, that he falls in love with her. When Roger Metcalf comes to a dinner with Larry, his mother and Ann, Roger recognizes her and calls Dick to come along. Ann is somehow forced to tell Larry the truth about her past. And after that the relationship breaks apart. Finally Dick moves to New York, buys the cottage Larry had bought for her, and calls in the shop to send him Ann Trevor for remodeling. They confess their love for each other, and they walk together through the entrance of the cottage.'
'comedy','Attorney Alan Ward (Paul Page) is fed up with the reckless behavior of spoiled heiress Kay Elliott (Alice White) – the daughter of the head of his law firm – who is in love with him. Stung by his rejection, she eventually tells him to "Go jump in the lake." Seeing a chance to make up the money they lost in the stock market crash, a fortune-hunting brother and sister, Jack and Linda Gregory (Douglas Gilmore and Myrna Loy), get Kay to agree to marry Jack. At the altar, she announces that she still loves Alan, and he comes to his senses and realizes he loves her too.'
'romance','A young woman, Jerry Girard (Frances Dee) is pushed by her mother (Lucille Gleason) and family into accepting the marriage proposal of a millionaire, Mark Chandler (Alan Mowbray), who is the employer of her father (James Durkin). To do so, she has to drop the boy she really loves and promised to marry, Billy Wells (Russell Gleason), but her family is seeking to recover from their financial woes and find security. When the millionaire finds out the real situation, he releases her from her vow and gives the young couple a $5000 wedding gift. He then leaves for Europe with an old flame, Dorothy Drew (Carmel Myers).'
'drama','Lora Hart applies for a job as a trainee nurse in a hospital, but is rejected by the Superintendent of Nurses, Miss Dillon, for not having graduated from high school. Fortunately, a chance encounter with the hospital''s chief of staff, Dr. Arthur Bell, in an uncooperative revolving door, gets that requirement waived. Lora''s roommate and fellow nurse, Miss Maloney, becomes her best friend. Lora is assigned to night duty in the emergency room. One night, Lora treats bootlegger, Mortie, for a gunshot wound and earns his gratitude by letting herself be persuaded not to report it to the police as required by law. He also admires the pretty young nurse. After she passes her training, Lora is hired for private duty, looking after two sick children, Desney and Nanny Ritchie. She moves into the Ritchie mansion, where there is always a party going on. The children''s socialite mother, Mrs Ritchie, lives in an alcoholic stupor, infatuated with the brutish chauffeur Nick. When a drunken guest tries to molest Lora, Nick knocks him out. When Lora refuses his demand that she pump out the stomach of a very drunk Mrs. Ritchie, he knocks her out and takes her to her room. The Ritchie family physician is "society doctor", and apparent drug addict, Dr. Milton Ranger. Lora becomes alarmed by Dr. Ranger''s treatment of the children, because she sees that they are being slowly starved to death, but she is unable to get anybody to take her seriously. She quits and takes her suspicions to Dr. Bell. He is initially reluctant to interfere with another doctor''s patients, but eventually advises her to return to her job so she can gather evidence. She persuades Dr. Ranger to take her back. Nanny Ritchie becomes so weak, Lora fears for her life and tries unsuccessfully to get Mrs. Ritchie to show any concern. By chance, Mortie is delivering liquor to the perpetual party at the mansion. Desperate, Lora sends Mortie for milk for a milk bath for Nanny, a folk remedy recommended by the frightened housekeeper, Mrs. Maxwell. Mrs. Maxwell gets drunk and confides her suspicions to Lora. The girls have a trust fund from their late father. Nick ran over and killed their sister with his car, and with Dr. Ranger''s connivance, is deliberately starving the little girls to death. The trust fund will pass to the drunken and infatuated Mrs. Ritchie, and Nick will marry her for the money. After being threatened by Mortie, Dr. Bell shows up and examines Nanny. However, when he tries to take Nanny to the hospital, Nick knocks him out. Mortie stops Nick from interfering any further, and Nanny''s life is saved by an emergency blood transfusion provided by Lora. The next day, Mortie gives Lora a lift in his car. To allay her worries, he informs her that he told some of his friends that he didn''t like Nick. Elsewhere, an ambulance brings a corpse dressed in a chauffeur''s uniform to the hospital''s morgue.'
'drama','In 1929, Bill White (Grant Withers), is a railroad engineer and boozing womanizer who is evicted from his boarding house for excessive drinking and late rental payments. Needing a new place to live, he accepts the invitation from his longtime friend and fellow engineer, Jack Kulper (Regis Toomey), to move into his home, where he resides happily with his wife Lily (Mary Astor). This new living arrangement brings changes to relationships as the months pass. Bill and Lily''s own friendship, which at first is playful and innocent, evolves into a passionate love between them. Hesitant to hurt Jack, they try to keep their feelings secret, at least for a while; but Jack begins to notice differences in his wife''s demeanor and becomes suspicious when he finds that Bill has suddenly moved out of their house. Jack initially thinks Lily and his friend have had a quarrel, but he later confronts Bill inside the cab of the coal-fired steam locomotive that the two men operate together at the nearby rail yard. There Bill finally admits to Jack that Lily and he have fallen in love. In the fistfight that ensues, Jack falls during the struggle, strikes his head, and is permanently blinded by the injury. During his convalescence at home, Lily tries to rededicate herself to her marriage; however, Jack resents his dependency on his wife. Increasingly frustrated by his situation, he insists that Lily leave town for a few weeks to visit her parents, explaining that he needs emotional space and that he also wants her away from the dangers of expected floods due to rainstorms in the area. Shortly after Lily''s departure, Jack learns from rail workers that Bill plans to drive a train of flatcars stacked with bags of cement onto a vital river bridge, the desperate hope being that the combined weight of the train and its load will bolster the bridge and prevent it from being swept away by the rising floodwaters. Stumbling that night through a heavy downpour and literally feeling his way to the rail line, sightless Jack manages to locate Bill and knock him unconscious before he begins what everyone deems a suicidal mission. Jack then takes charge of the engine''s controls, but before moving onto the wavering bridge, he pushes Bill off the locomotive to safety. Once on the bridge, the entire train plummets into the river as the structure collapses, and Jack drowns in the raging river. Months after the tragedy, Bill, still employed as an engineer, goes into the depot''s diner for some quick food before returning to his train. Nearby, Lily arrives on another train and enters the same restaurant carrying her luggage. The two see one another and engage in some awkward small talk before Lily remarks that she intends to remain in the community, fix up her house and yard, and plant a new spring garden. Then, with a warm smile, she invites Bill to drop by to help her with the work. Bill runs out of the diner to re-board his moving train. Lily stands in the restaurant''s doorway watching Bill climb to the top of a long line of freight cars and then running forward toward the engine. As he jumps from one car''s roof to the next he raises his arms skyward.'
'western','Two cowboy friends, Jeff (J. Farrell MacDonald) and Cash (William Farnum), are traveling through the desert in the southwest U.S., when they come upon a baby who has been abandoned in the back of a covered wagon. They can''t leave the defenseless child, so decide to take the baby with them, however, they argue over which of them would be better suited to raising the child. When Cash ends up prevailing in the debate, this creates a lifelong rift between the two friends. Years later the baby has now grown into a young man, Bill Holbrook (William Boyd), who works with his adoptive father on their cattle ranch. Cash''s erstwhile friend, Jeff, has remained in the area where the infant was found and has established his own ranch, centered on the water hole where the entire feud originally began, a feud which is still in full force. Jeff lives with his grown daughter, Mary Ellen (Helen Twelvetrees). The feud escalates when Cash wants to use the water hole on Jeff''s property to water his cattle. Jeff is ready to confront Cash in a stand-off, preventing him from watering his cattle on the property Jeff has claimed, assisted by an itinerant cowboy, Rance Brett (Clark Gable), who has been smitten with Mary Ellen''s beauty. The confrontation is temporarily avoided when Cash''s herd unexpectedly stampedes. When Bill discovers tungsten on Jeff''s property, he attempts to use it to close the division between his father and Jeff, however this only results in his father kicking him out. He turns to Jeff, and begins a mining operation, which actually has the opposite effect of Bill''s original intention, only exacerbating the tension between Jeff and Cash. Bill and Jeff''s partnership also causes tension with Rance, since Mary Ellen now shows an interest in Bill. After a shipment of tungsten which was on its way to pay the loan they had taken out to develop the mine is waylaid, Bill works furiously with the miners to replace it with another load. He is successful. However, as he is celebrating the success of the mine, as well as his impending nuptials with Mary Ellen, the mine is sabotaged by a series of explosions. Everyone believes the mine sabotage is the work of Cash, but it turns out to have been an act of jealousy on the part of Rance, who confesses, leaving the two old friends to reconcile, and their two children to marry.'
'comedy','During Prohibition, Laurel and Hardy are sent to prison for concocting and selling their own home brew. They are put in a cell with "Tiger" Long, the roughest, toughest and meanest of all inmates. Stan has a loose tooth that causes him to emit a razzberry at the end of every sentence; the inmate interprets this as a coolly defiant attitude and is impressed—nobody else ever stood up to him like that. He and Stan become fast friends. Laurel & Hardy are assigned to attend prison school with James Finlayson being the teacher. The vaudeville routine that follows ends with a spitball meant for somebody else hitting the teacher in the face and the boys wind up in solitary. There is a sustained scene of the bleak cells with the unseen boys conversing through the walls. After a prison break, the boys escape to a cotton plantation, where they hide out undetected, in blackface. The boys sing "Lazy Moon". When they attempt to repair the warden''s car, they are discovered and are sent back to prison. The prison authorities decide to send Laurel to the prison dentist to have the offending tooth pulled, but the dentist is incompetent and the procedure goes awry. Tricked by a prison guard into calling off a hunger strike by being promised a thanksgiving-style feast, they go to the mess hall, only to be served the usual drab fare. Laurel causes a disturbance by protesting the absence of the feast, but is threatened by the guards. Soon after, as guns are being passed around under the tables, Laurel sets off his gun and causes an uproar. They inadvertently break up the prison riot and the grateful warden issues them a pardon. Laurel unintentionally "razzes" the warden and their exit from the prison has to be a very fast one. H.M. Walker wrote the opening title card to this film, which states, "Mr. Hardy is a man of wonderful ideas—So is Mr. Laurel—As long as he doesn''t try to think."[citation needed]'
'comedy','Jeffrey Haywood (Reginald Denny) wants to get married to Virginia Embrey (Sally Eilers). However, Virginia refused to marry unless her older sister, the hard-to-please Angelica (Dorothy Christy) gets married first. Angelica, in turn, finds every man she knows too dull and predictable, and for this reason prefers to stay single. Jeff then tries to make Angelica interested in the mild-mannered and timid Reggie Irving (played by Keaton) passing him off as a notorious playboy to intrigue her. He asks his friend Polly to teach Reggie "how to treat a woman right", but he turns out to be a disastrous learner.'
'comedy','Aggie Bruno (Cora Witherspoon) has had enough of her husband, Joe (Joseph Cawthorn), and decides to get a divorce in Reno. She meets with lawyers Wattles and Swift (Wheeler and Woolsey), the latter of the two agreeing to represent Aggie in court. Swift suggests that Aggie be "caught" with another man. Meanwhile, Joe Bruno has also headed to Reno, and is being represented in court by Wattles. Wattles suggests that Joe be "caught" with another woman. Meanwhile, Ace Crosby (Mitchell Harris), an angry Arizona gambler, wants to shoot Wattles for representing his wife in a previous divorce case. Swift suggests that Wattles dress as a woman in order to avoid being found by the gambler. That evening, Wattles and Swift do the same thing that they do every evening: turn their office into a casino. Swift arrives at the casino pretending to be Aggie Bruno''s love interest. To add to the confusion, Wattles (dressed as a woman) shows up with Joe Bruno, pretending to be his love interest.'
'comedy','Stewart "Stew" Smith (Robert Williams), ace reporter for the Post, is assigned to get the story about the latest escapade of playboy Michael Schuyler (Donald Dillaway), a breach of promise suit by chorus girl Gloria Golden, who has been paid to drop it. Unlike rival Daily Tribune reporter Bingy Baker (Walter Catlett), he turns down a $50 bribe from Dexter Grayson (Reginald Owen), the Schuylers'' lawyer, to not write anything. He does pretend to be swayed by the pleas of Anne (Jean Harlow), Michael''s sister, but then brazenly calls his editor with the scoop, appalling the Schuylers. Stew returns to the house to return a copy of Conrad he had taken from the Schuylers'' library. The butler, Smythe (Halliwell Hobbes), tries to make him leave, but Anne sees him. Stew surprises Anne by presenting her with Michael''s love letters to Gloria, who had intended to use them to extort more money from the Schuylers. Anne offers Stew a $5,000 check, which he refuses. She asks why he reported the suit, but not the love notes. Stew explains that one was news, the other, blackmail. He later tells her he is writing a play. Intrigued, Anne wonders if she can turn him into a gentleman. She invites him to a party at the house. They fall in love and soon elope, horrifying Anne''s widowed mother, Mrs. Schuyler (Louise Closser Hale), an imperious dowager who looks down on Stew''s lower-class background. Michael takes it in stride, telling Stew he''s not as bad as everyone thinks. The wedding is scooped by the rival Daily Tribune, enraging his editor, Conroy (Edmund Breese). Even more upset is Stew''s best friend Gallagher (Loretta Young), a "sob sister" columnist secretly pining for him. Conroy taunts Stew as "a bird in a gilded cage." Despite his bravado, Stew is upset by the implication he is no longer his own man, vowing not to live on Anne''s money. However, she cajoles him into moving into the mansion and starts to make him over, buying him garters (despite his objections) and hiring a valet, Dawson (Claud Allister). When the Schuylers hold a reception for the Spanish ambassador, Gallagher substitutes for the society reporter and chats with Stew. Anne is surprised to learn that her husband''s best friend (whom she had assumed was a man) is actually a lovely young woman and treats Gallagher icily. Then, Bingy tells Stew the Tribune will give him a column if he signs it "Anne Schuyler''s husband." Insulted, Stew punches Bingy when he calls him Cinderella Man. The next morning, Mrs. Schuyler is aghast to find Stew''s brawl has made the front page. Wrestling with his play, Stew invites Gallagher and another friend, Hank (Eddy Chandler) from Joe''s. They arrive with Joe and several bar patrons in tow and even Bingy shows up to apologize. A raucous party ensues. Meanwhile, Stew and Gallagher ponder the play, deciding to base it on Stew''s marriage. Anne, Mrs. Schuyler, and Grayson return as the party is in full swing. Stew apologizes for letting the party get out of control, but protests that he can invite friends to "my house." Anne replies, "Your house?" Stew returns with Gallagher to his own apartment. Along the way, he gives a homeless man his expensive garters. Grayson stops by to say Anne will pay him alimony, whereupon Stew punches him (earlier, Stew had warned Grayson that his twentieth insult would earn him a "sock to the nose"). Stew tells Gallagher the play could end with the protagonist divorcing his rich wife and marrying the woman whom he had always loved without ever realizing it. Overwhelmed, Gallagher hugs him.'
'romantic comedy','Crime runs rampant in Lake City and the corrupt mayor is running for another term of office and it looks as though he will win it until the women of the town, disgusted with the situation, back homebody Hattie Burns to run against him. The Women band against the men and a veritable "battle of the sexes" is on. In the end, Hattie slides to victory.'
'drama','Marian Martin (Joan Crawford) is a factory girl living with her mother in the working class section of Erie, Pennsylvania. Factory boy Al Manning (Wallace Ford) hopes to marry her, but Marian is determined to find a better life. When a train makes a stop in town, Marian looks through the windows and sees the wealthy passengers. She then makes the acquaintance of one of the train passengers, Wally Stuart (Richard "Skeets" Gallagher), a New Yorker who gives her champagne and writes down his address, telling her to look him up if she ever makes it to New York. Marian, now tipsy from the champagne, happily returns home. Giggling, she tells Al and her mother that she was drinking down by the railroad tracks. Al, who was waiting for her and accuses her of being drunk, spots the piece of paper containing Wally''s address in Marian''s hand, grabs it from her, and tears it up. He then tells Marian that her actions are inappropriate and that she''s staying with him. Marian lashes out, telling Al and her mother that no one owns her and that her life belongs to herself. She grabs the torn paper shreds up from the floor and pastes them back together, then leaves for New York City. There, she looks up Wally who gives her some advice on meeting and keeping wealthy men, which Marian uses to begin a relationship with his friend Mark Whitney (Clark Gable), a divorced attorney. She eventually becomes Mark''s mistress and he provides her with a complete make-over, educating her in the arts and culture of his social set. Three years pass and the two entertain with brio and style. Marian and Mark fall in love. To cover the fact of Marian being his kept woman, Mark devises a made-up back story of her being "Mrs. Moreland", a wealthy divorcee living comfortably off her alimony. Some time later, Al, now running a prosperous cement business, comes to the city hoping to land a big contract. He sees Marian and asks her to marry him, but she refuses. When Al learns that Marian is friends with Mark, Al hopes he can use Mark to help land that contract. Al has no idea of Marian and Mark''s true relationship. When Mark decides to run for gubernatorial office, however, friends caution him that his relationship with Marian is a serious liability. When she overhears Mark talking with some politicians, she learns that he now plans to marry her, despite the fact that their relationship would cause a scandal. To support his gubernatorial bid, she lies to Mark, telling him that she no longer loves him. She tells him that she is going to marry Al instead. Marian decides to tell Al the truth. He rebuffs her, saying that he could never marry such a woman. He changes his mind when he realizes that in shutting her out of his life, he is also burning his bridges with Mark and that highway contract. A political rival learns of Marian''s true identity and plans to leak that information at one of Mark''s political rallies. At that rally, Mark has the crowd generally on his side. No one is aware that Marian is in the audience. His political rivals then drop shards of paper from the auditorium ceiling, each piece of paper with the text, "Who is Mrs. Moreland?" written on it. Seeing that text on the paper, Mark has a worried look on his face, he not knowing what to do. As the crowd rumbles, Marian steps up from the audience and tells them that she is Mrs. Moreland, and that Mark has always been an honorable man, who once belonged to her, but now belongs to them. The crowd cheers as she, sobbing, leaves. Outside, Mark catches up to her and tells her that from now on they will be together no matter what. Mark legitimizes their relationship by proposing marriage.'
'comedy, drama','Elyot Chase and Amanda Prynne, divorced after a tempestuous marriage, are dismayed to discover they both have opted to honeymoon with their new spouses at the same hotel on the French Riviera. Elyot finds his bride Sybil''s questions about Amanda annoying, while Amanda wishes her new husband Victor would stop referring to Elyot every chance he gets. When Elyot discovers Amanda on the terrace their adjoining suites share, he insists he and Sybil immediately depart for Paris, the same plan Amanda proposes to Victor. The two ex-spouses quarrel with their new mates, both of whom set off in search of peace and quiet. Left to reminisce, Elyot and Amanda rekindle their relationship with a kiss and make a pact to put an end to any verbal battles when either one utters the name "Solomon Isaacs." The two then abandon and flee to St. Moritz, but before long they begin a spat that evolves into a major fight about a phonograph record, which Amanda breaks over Elyot''s head, an action that leads to total destruction of their hotel room. Rushing out, Amanda meets Victor and Sybil, who have tracked down the prodigal duo, and everyone becomes involved in the dispute. Things finally calm down, and the two couples meet for breakfast the next day, but when Victor and Sybil begin to fight, Elyot and Amanda walk out and depart the resort by train.'
'drama, crime','As youngsters in 1900s Chicago, Tom Powers (James Cagney) and his lifelong friend Matt Doyle (Edward Woods) engage in petty theft, selling their loot to "Putty Nose" (Murray Kinnell). Putty Nose persuades them to join his gang on a fur warehouse robbery, assuring them he will take care of them if anything goes wrong. When Tom is startled by a stuffed bear, he shoots it, alerting the police, who kill gang member Larry Dalton. Chased by a cop, Tom and Matt have to gun him down. However, when they go to Putty Nose for help, they find he has left town. Tom''s straightlaced older brother Mike (Donald Cook) tries, but fails, to talk Tom into giving up crime. Tom keeps his activities secret from his doting mother (Beryl Mercer). When America enters World War I in 1917, Mike enlists in the Marines. In 1920, with Prohibition about to go into effect, Paddy Ryan (Robert Emmett O''Connor) recruits Tom and Matt as beer "salesmen" (enforcers) in his bootlegging business. He allies himself with noted gangster Samuel "Nails" Nathan (Leslie Fenton). As the bootlegging business becomes ever more lucrative, Tom and Matt flaunt their wealth. Mike finds out that his brother''s money comes not from politics, as Tom claims, but from bootlegging, and declares that Tom''s success is based on nothing more than "beer and blood" (the title of the book upon which the film is based). Tom retorts in disgust: "Your hands ain''t so clean. You killed and liked it. You didn''t get them medals for holding hands with them Germans." Tom and Matt acquire girlfriends, Kitty (an uncredited Mae Clarke) and Mamie (Joan Blondell) respectively. Tom eventually tires of Kitty; in a famous scene, when she complains once too often, he angrily pushes half a grapefruit into her face. He then drops her for Gwen Allen (Jean Harlow), a woman with a self-confessed weakness for bad men. At a restaurant on the night of Matt''s wedding reception to Mamie, Tom and Matt recognize Putty Nose and follow him home. Begging for his life, Putty plays a song on the piano that he had entertained Tom and Matt with when they were kids. Tom shoots him in the back. Tom gives his mother a large wad of money, but Mike rejects the gift. Tom tears up the banknotes and throws them in his brother''s face. "Nails" Nathan dies in a horse riding accident, prompting Tom to find the horse and shoot it. A rival gang headed by "Schemer" Burns takes advantage of the disarray resulting from Nathan''s death, precipitating a gang war. Later, Matt is gunned down in public, with Tom narrowly escaping the same fate. Furious, Tom takes it upon himself to single-handedly settle scores with Burns and some of his men. Tom is seriously wounded in the shootout, and ends up in the hospital. When his mother, brother, and Matt''s sister Molly come to see him, he reconciles with Mike and agrees to reform. However, Paddy warns Mike that Tom has been kidnapped by the Burns mob from the hospital. Later, his dead body is returned to the Powers home.'
'drama, crime','The film involves a truck driver (Spencer Tracy) and the wealthy woman (Marguerite Churchill) whom he covets, and also features Sally Eilers, George Raft and Leon Ames in supporting roles.[1][2]'
'comedy','The snobbish Madame Pauline "Polly" Rochay operates an exclusive beauty parlor in New York City that specializes in weight reduction. When she learns that her sister, Marie Truffle, is destitute, Polly decides to take her, her husband Elmer and their three children, Vivian, Jerry and Marty, from South Bend, Indiana, into her home. Joyce, Polly''s socialite daughter, objects to her mother''s decision, insisting that the Truffles are too unrefined to live among the Rochays. When the Truffles finally arrive in the big city, Polly puts her sister to work at her salon while Elmer looks for work as a mail carrier. Joyce resents the intrusion of the ill-mannered Truffles, and Polly concurs with her when the meddlesome Marie damages the beauty parlor and her children scratch her car. One evening, while Joyce is out on a date with her playboy sweetheart, Johnnie Beasley, Marie and Polly compare their daughters'' boyfriends. Polly boasts that Johnnie is the better because he is a sophisticated millionaire, while Marie informs Polly that Tommy Haverly, Vivian''s boyfriend, is from one of the oldest families in South Bend. Polly then insults Marie when she tells her that Vivian will never meet the same caliber of men that Joyce meets. When Johnnie brings Joyce home, he meets Vivian and takes an immediate liking to her, which makes Joyce jealous. The next day, after spurning Tommy, Vivian goes on a lunch date with Johnnie. Joyce later accuses Vivian of trying to steal her boyfriend. At the salon, Marie makes a nuisance of herself when, after a series of errors, she accidentally locks Polly in the steam room. Later, Polly and Marie become embroiled in their daughters'' quarrel over Johnnie, and Marie strikes Joyce when Joyce insults Vivian. Three months pass, and the Truffles, now settled into their own home, await the arrival of Johnnie, who has been dating Vivian and will be escorting her to a party. While Vivian and Johnnie are out on their date, the heartbroken Joyce visits Marie and begs her to intervene in her daughter''s affair with the man she loves. Moved by her show of emotion, Marie agrees to help Joyce by going to Johnnie''s and speaking to him on her behalf. At Johnnie''s, Marie accuses the young playboy of unfairly turning Vivian''s head with fancy cars, yachts and other luxuries and then giving her the gate. Marie then insists that Johnnie marry Joyce, which he agrees to do. Marie tells her daughter that Johnnie was not worthy of her love because he was only seeing her to make Joyce jealous. After Joyce and Johnnie''s wedding, Polly, unaware that Marie was responsible for their reunion, calls to gloat about the news and remind Marie that Vivian should have "stayed in her own class." However, when Joyce explains Marie''s involvement, Polly thanks her sister for her help, and the two forgive each other.'
'comedy, drama','Twice divorced Jackie Millet tries one more time with number three. Unfortunately, her wedding is suddenly halted when the woman''s son kills the groom during the ceremony, and then shoots himself.'
'romance','On an ocean liner from Colombo to Singapore, black sheep Hugh Dawltry tries, but fails to become better acquainted with fellow passenger Philippa Crosby. He is pleasantly surprised to find that they are both getting off at Khota. Ashore, she rebuffs his advances again, informing him that she has come to marry Dr. George March, Dawltry''s neighbor. Philippa is sorely disappointed by her marriage, however. George is utterly wrapped up in his work, and does not even take her on a honeymoon. As time goes by, the neglected, unhappy woman begins to find Dawltry more and more attractive. So does George''s 18-year-old sister Rene. Most of the expatriate community shuns him for his involvement in a scandalous, widely publicized divorce. One day, George plans to take a patient with a very rare disease to Colombo. Dawltry takes the opportunity to invite Philippa to dinner. Before that time, Rene invites herself into his bungalow. When she refuses to leave, Dawltry frightens her into fleeing by sweeping her up in his arms and carrying her into his bedroom. Philippa shows up at the appointed time. Unfortunately, the patient dies and George cancels his trip. Returning home, he finds Dawltry''s invitation, takes his pistol and goes to retrieve his wife. She tells him she is leaving him and drives off in their car. Dawltry sets out after her. As he leaves, he tells George it is his last chance, but George is unable to pull the trigger.'
'comedy','Princess Anne (Mary Astor) plans to run away with Freddie Granton (Anthony Bushell), the commoner secretary of her father, King Eric VIII (Lowell Sherman), once her domineering mother, Queen Martha (Nance O''Neil), has left for a vacation in America. Anne is therefore aghast when the Marquis of Birten (Alan Roscoe) brings news that he has negotiated her political marriage to Prince William of Grec (Hugh Trevor), a man she has never even met. Dismissing Anne''s vehement protests, the Queen is delighted, a feeling not shared by Anne''s loving but ineffectual father. Meanwhile, the Premier and General Northrup (Robert Warwick) warn that a revolution is brewing. He wishes to execute large numbers of political prisoners, but cannot without the King''s signature. The Queen wholeheartedly approves of these stern measures. The King promises to attend to it, but after Northrup and the Queen leave, he orders his secretary to misplace the death warrants. Led by Laker (Carrol Naish), the rebels rise up after Northrup gets Parliament to grant him dictatorial powers. Anne seizes the opportunity to try to flee with Granton, with her father''s approval. However, when she believes that the King is in real danger, she refuses to leave him. Doctor Fellman (Frederick Burt), a moderate rebel leader, comes to see the King to demand his abdication, but agrees to stop the fighting in favor of negotiation. Then Northrup insists he is in charge now and laughs in derision when the King claims the people are stronger than Northrup''s army and navy. Next to arrive is Prince William. Despite his admission that he dislikes Anne, he is prepared to do his duty and go through with the wedding. Then Fellman and Laker show up. The King surprises Northrup by dismissing him from his service and putting Fellman in charge, ordering him to set up general elections as soon as possible. The Queen, newly returned from America with a much-needed loan, tells her husband in private that she knew the whole revolution was a bluff to force Northrup from power. The King has one last deception planned (of which she is unaware). After she leaves for the wedding, he has Granton brought to him. He speedily marries Anne and Granton and sends them on their way to "exile" in France.'
'comedy','Millionaire playboy Fred White is attempting to make chorus girl Evelyn his latest conquest. Evelyn, on to Fred''s scheming, has some scheming of her own, attempting to maneuver Fred into marriage. In a last ditch effort to get Evelyn into bed, Fred purchases a diamond bracelet, to which he has attached a key to the apartment he has leased as their potential love nest. When he shows the bracelet to his friend, Howard, the friend warns Fred that Evelyn is simply a gold-digger, only interested in getting him to marry her so that she can gain access to his money. The two make a bet. If Fred wins by getting her to be his kept woman, Howard has to pay for the bracelet and the cost of the apartment, and if Howard wins, by rejecting Fred''s non-marital advances, Fred will owe Howard the same amount of money. When his plan to establish the love nest does not work out, Fred is dismayed, but Evelyn opens the door by inviting him to dinner the following night. She uses the dinner as a pretense to set to entrap Fred into marriage. Part of her plan involves her friend, Lou, to pose as her father. Not understanding that he is being entrapped, Fred realizes that he is really in love with Evelyn, and actually makes a real proposal of marriage. The night of his bachelor party, Howard is still distrustful of Evelyn''s motives and gets Lou drunk, after which he reveals Evelyn''s plot to entrap Fred. Fred is devastated, and agrees to a plan to embarrass Evelyn at the altar on the day of their wedding. Meanwhile, Evelyn realizes that she is no longer after Fred simply for his money, that she has actually fallen in love with him. She cannot bring herself to confess her underhanded scheming to Fred, and simply does not show up on the day of their wedding. Fred rushes from the church to her house, where he finds a letter she had written to him in which she confesses everything. He convinces her to come back to the church and go through with the wedding. They return to the church, where everything is explained to the guests, and the two of them are married.'
'thriller','Gilda Karlson (Dorothy Mackaill) is a New Orleans prostitute. She is accused of murdering Piet Van Saal (Ralf Harolde), the man responsible for ending her former job as a secretary and leading her into prostitution. Her old boyfriend, sailor Carl Erickson (Donald Cook), smuggles her to safety to Tortuga, an island in the Caribbean from which she cannot be extradited. On the island, Gilda and Carl get "married" without a clergyman to officiate, and she swears to be faithful to him. After Carl leaves on his ship, Gilda finds herself to be the only white woman in a hotel full of international criminals, all of whom try to seduce her. Especially persistent is Mr. Bruno (Morgan Wallace), who describes himself as "the jailer and executioner of this island". He arranges to intercept letters Carl sends to her and steals the support money he includes. Bruno''s intention is to make Gilda think Carl has abandoned her, hoping she will seek his assistance once she becomes desperate for cash. Van Saal arrives on the island, having ditched his wife and now on the lam with the life insurance money he collected after his "death". Pretending to be concerned for Gilda''s safety, Bruno gives her a pistol to protect herself. Later, when Van Saal attempts to rape her in her room, Gilda shoots and kills him. She is then put on trial for murder and is about to be acquitted by a sympathetic jury. While awaiting the official verdict, Bruno tells her that even if she is found innocent, he will arrest her for possessing the "deadly weapon" he had given to her. The sentence will be at least six months in his prison camp, where he will provide her with very comfortable living conditions, although she will be expected to give him sexual favors in return. To foil Bruno''s trap, Gilda rushes back to the judge and gives a false confession of killing Van Saal "in cold blood", preferring to be executed rather than break her vow to Carl. The film ends with Gilda, followed by two policemen and Bruno, slowing walking to the gallows.[1][2][3]'
'drama','Young Nell (Chandler) loses her job and home and her father is sent to prison. She joins the Salvation Army and tries to redeem him when he comes out of prison, bent on continuing his life of crime.'
'drama','Newspaper editor Mark Flint cares about only two things, reporting a big story, no matter whose life it adversely affects, and Edith, his wife. He is unaware that Edith, bored by him, has been having a romantic affair with Noel Adams, a banker. Adams gives a 24-hour deadline to Edith to leave her husband or end the affair. He books passage on a steamship and packs his bags. But after a crisis develops that could ruin his bank, Flint finds out, confronts Adams and, seeing his luggage, mistakenly believes Adams is fleeing the country. He prints the story without giving Adams a chance to manage the crisis at the bank. Although his journalistic coups please Franklin, the newspaper''s owner, Flint is asked by Franklin if he would be willing to publish a photograph that would hurt a colleague. Flint says yes, whereupon Franklin shows him a picture of his wife and Adams together. An enraged Flint murders Adams, turns himself in and is sentenced to Sing Sing, where he ends up running the prison''s newspaper.'
'drama','Navy Lieutenant Greg Winters (Alan Hale) is found guilty by a court-martial for pausing briefly to prepare to rescue survivors of the Alatania, a torpedoed ship, rather than attacking immediately the submarine responsible. As a result, he is sidelined for the rest of World War I. In 1925 New Orleans, lawyer Henry Sykes (Clarence Wilson) hires now civilian Captain Winters for a salvage job on behalf of Evelyn Inchcape (Laura La Plante). Sykes insists on using his own deep sea diver to retrieve something from none other than the Alatania. After a box is brought up, Winters confronts the diver, who turns out to be Karl Ludwig, the commander of the submarine for whom Winters has been searching. He puts Ludwig in the brig, though he soon escapes. Then Winters goes to see Sykes and Inchcape. Inchcape''s wealthy uncle and cousin lost their lives aboard the Alatania. Winters reports he has recovered two wills, one leaving a million dollar estate to Inchcape, the other to the cousin, whom Sykes implies is still alive. Now, after seven years, the uncle can be declared legally dead. Winters is willing to split the money with either party. Despite his professed indifference to Inchcape''s beauty and her loathing of men in general, when they are alone, he gives her the first option. She despises him, but he tears the will in her favor in two and gives her half. Later, he sees Sykes at his office and, while pretending to bargain, learns that the cousin is actually dead; Sykes intended to produce an imposter. Sykes bribes Winters'' first mate and some men to betray him. When Winters goes to settle accounts with Ludwig, he is ambushed and knocked out (though Ludwig has no part in it). Sykes kidnaps Inchcape and sets sail on Winters'' ship. In a cabin, Sykes attempts to force himself on Inchcape, but she is rescued by Ludwig. They have a talk. Meanwhile, Winters, accompanied by his friend, ineffectual upper class lawyer Percy Atwater (Claud Allister), boards the ship and subdues the crew. Then he gets his long-awaited bout with Ludwig. Just as Winters is about to choke the life out of his hated foe, Inchcape shows him a letter in which Ludwig''s sweetheart informs him that she will be sailing on the Alatania. Ludwig received it after the sinking. Winters acknowledges that Ludwig has suffered enough and lets him go. Afterward, Winters forces Sykes to marry him and Inchcape, before having the lawyer tossed overboard.'
'war','Two Union officers, Captain Lewis Dumont and his younger brother, Lieutenant Henry Dumont, receive orders from General Ulysses S. Grant Grant to go behind enemy lines and become undercover agents to feed false information to the Confederate States Army. Lewis is tasked with becoming part of a Confederate telegraph office in Richmond, Virginia, under the guise of a deceased Confederate officer, Thorne. Meanwhile, Henry is ordered to allow himself to be captured by the enemy, during which he is supposed to pass incorrect information about Union positions. Thorne comes upon the tail-end of a skirmish between Union and Confederate soldiers, during which he is wounded. After the battle, he carries one of the wounded southerners, Howard Varney, back to his family''s plantation. This endears Thorne to the family of the wounded rebel, particularly Varney''s father, who is a Confederate general. While recuperating from his own wounds, Thorne develops a romantic relationship with Howard''s sister, Edith. However, this creates enmity with one of the locals who was interested in Edith prior to Thorne''s arrival, Arlesford. When Thorne enlists one of the Varney''s slaves to take a message to his brother in the prisoner of war camp, Arlesford, already suspicious of Thorne, sets a trap. When the trap is sprung, the slave is executed by hanging. As the two Dumont brothers develop their plan for giving false information, and allowing Union troops to break through the Confederate lines, the younger brother is brought from the prison camp to the Varney plantation. Rather than allow their plan to be uncovered, Henry shoots himself. The elder Dumont, torn between duty and his love for Edith, is eventually uncovered as a spy. However, it is also discovered that he never sent the false information. As he is led away to prison, Edith vows to wait for him.'
'crime','Bootlegger Johnny Franks recruits a crude working man called Louis "Louie" Scorpio as part of the gang of mob boss Richard "Newt" Newton. Scorpio eventually becomes head of the organization himself. Then he is prosecuted by a secret group of six masked crime fighters, aided by newspaper reporters Carl Luckner and Hank Rogers.'
'drama','Bart Carter has sacrificed a writing career so he can support his wife Peggy and their five children by working as a clerk in a New York City publishing house. When his former girlfriend Mildred Bronson, a literary agent who has been working in the Paris office, returns to the States, she arranges for Bart to draw his regular salary while working on a novel. Because his home life is so chaotic, Bart writes at Mildred''s apartment during the day and frequently stays for dinner, and the two soon discover their old feelings for each other have been revived. Bart''s novel is published, and when Seed becomes a critical and commercial success, he abandons his family and moves to France with Mildred. Peggy opens a dress shop and lives with the children in an apartment above the store. A decade later, the now-married Bart and Mildred return to New York. His grown children are delighted to see their father, who wishes to make amends for having left them. He suggests enrolling his daughter Margaret in finishing school, sending the twin boys to Harvard University, finding employment for his oldest son, and having the youngest boy live with him and Mildred. At her children''s urging Peggy reluctantly agrees, although she feels she is losing them. Mildred assures her they will return to her one day, whereas she believes their renewed relationship with their father will place her own future with Bart in jeopardy.'
'musical comedy','Pat (Winnie Lightner) does everything she can to keep the struggling Colonel Gowdy Big City Shows traveling circus afloat, despite an alcoholic though well-meaning Colonel Gowdy (Guy Kibbee) and disgruntled unpaid workers. She sings and dances, and even does a high dive into a shallow pool of water when the "Great Santini" quits just before a performance. One of her few comforts is her love for barker Joe Palmer (Donald Cook). He, however, seems less enthused about the relationship and regularly takes money from her. To add to her troubles, her younger sister Irene (Evalyn Knapp), whom she is having educated to become a lady, visits her during school vacation and wants to stay with the circus. Irene and Tom fall in love. When Pat finds out, she sends Irene back to school, fires Tom, and tells Gowdy she is quitting the circus. Fortunately, Tom and Irene come to their senses, and Tom asks Pat to marry him.'
'comedy','Harmon (Keaton) is a wealthy landlord. When he goes to visit one of his tenements, he gets caught in the middle of a brawl between groups of kids, one of whom, Clipper Kelly (Phillips) starts to attack Harmon. When Harmon defends himself, he is seen by Clipper''s sister, Margie (Page). Harmon falls in love at first sight and begins to woo her following his trial for attacking Clipper. In order to demonstrate that he is okay, Harmon opens a gymnasium for the street boys, but Clipper, who has fallen in with a small-time gangster, Butch (Rowan), wants nothing to do with Harmon and turns the other boys against him. Harmon tries to win them over by staging a wrestling match with his friend Poggle (Edwards) and a rigged boxing match with Mulvaney (Saylor). In the meantime, Butch has gotten Clipper involved in a series of robberies with Clipper dressed as a woman. When Butch and Clipper believe Harmon has learned of their activities, Butch orders Clipper to kill Harmon during a stage play that is being performed at the gymnasium, but Clipper gets cold feet. Butch grabs Harmon, who is dressed in Clipper''s drag costume, and heads up to Harmon''s mansion to rob it. Butch''s gang joins them and Clipper and the other boys come to Harmon''s rescue.'
'drama','When neglected wife Alice (Karen Morley) decides to leave her doctor husband Lawrence (Robert Young), his friend Dr. Dulac (Jean Hersholt) stops her and tells her the life story of another woman, Madelon Claudet (Helen Hayes), who was persuaded by her American boyfriend, artist Larry Maynard (Neil Hamilton), to run away with him. Eventually, he has to return to the U.S. because his father is sick. Once there however, he betrays her and marries a woman approved of by his parents. Unbeknownst to him, Madelon gives birth to a son. When her lover does not come back, her father (Russ Powell) gets her to agree to marry Hubert (Alan Hale), a farmer. However, when she refuses to give up her illegitimate son, Hubert and her father abandon her. She becomes the mistress of an older acquaintance, Count Carlo Boretti (Lewis Stone), while her friends Rosalie (Marie Prevost) and Victor Lebeau (Cliff Edwards) care for the boy. After a while, Carlo proposes marriage and Madelon accepts. However, when they go out to celebrate, he is arrested as a jewel thief. He manages to commit suicide, but Madelon is sentenced to ten years in prison as his accomplice, even though she is innocent. When she finally is released in 1919, she goes to see her teenage son Lawrence, now living at a state boarding school. A conversation with the school''s doctor proves crucial. Dr. Dulac reveals that because his father was a criminal, he cannot get better work elsewhere. Determined not to become a similar burden to her own child, she tells her son that she is an old friend of his mother, and that his mother is dead. Madelon is determined to finance Lawrence''s medical education, but with the end of World War I, millions of Frenchmen are released from the army and jobs are scarce. When a man mistakes her for a prostitute, she takes up the profession. As she ages and loses her looks, she is forced to steal as well, but finally, her goal is realized, and Lawrence receives his degree. Aged and destitute, she decides to give up her freedom and commit herself to state charity, but visits her son one last time, pretending to be a patient. When she leaves, she encounters Dr. Dulac, who recognizes her and persuades his friend Dr. Claudet, still unaware of her true identity, to provide for her. After hearing of the woman''s self-sacrifice, Alice Claudet suggests to Lawrence he invite Madelon to live with them.'
'drama','Smiley Marsden (Ian Keith) is a bank-robber on the run from the police, with his moll, Frisco Kitty (Mary Astor). Cornered, they arrive at the San Francisco docks, where they convince the captain of a small cargo ship, Sam McVeigh (Louis Wolheim), to take them aboard on his run to Mexico, mostly because he is enchanted with Kitty. Marsden is posing as a minister. As the ship sets sail, every sailor aboard lusts after Kitty, none more so than the captain. One night, when inebriated, he corners Kitty in his cabin and begins to force himself on her. She stops him by basically telling him that he is better than that, which makes him do some deep soul-searching. During the rest of the voyage, Kitty manages to fend off the rest of the crew, with the help of the disarmed captain. By the time they dock in Mexico, McVeigh has fallen in love with Kitty, who he still believes to be the wife of "Minister" Marsden. Aware that the authorities might become suspicious of him if McVeigh''s ship departs immediately, Marsden delays their departure, first through the use of Kitty''s flirtation with McVeigh, and later through outright sabotage. After the crew accuses McVeigh of the sabotage, Marsden''s true identity is revealed, and he is shot trying to flee from the Mexican police. Kitty understands that McVeigh is truly in love with her, and the two end up together after the police release her.'
'musical comedy','Winnie is the head of a health clinic and has Jojo (played by Joe E. Brown) as one of her employees. Jojo is a wrestler forced to enter the ring and face down a musclebound masked opponent Olaf (played by Frank Hagney). Making matters worse, the masked marauder is convinced his wife has been fooling around with JoJo. JoJo is knocked out early in the proceedings, whereupon he dreams he is a sultan surrounded by harem girls. A romantic subplot involves Tom (played by Paul Gregory) and Sally (played by Claudia Dell). Tom works for Sally''s father. Sally asks her father to give Tom a promotion so she can spend more time with him. When Tom refuses to be promoted without earning the position, she threatens to have him fired and he quits his job. Tom attempts to begin a new career as a championship wrestler and is trained by Winnie and Jojo. When Sally learns about this, she attempts to stop him and asks for his forgiveness. She pleads with him to not fight but he has already pledged to do so. In one sequence, Joe E. Brown refuses to strip (for wrestling) when asked to by another man and makes comments about "not knowing him well enough", implying that the man is asking that because he is gay and wants to sleep with him.'
'comedy, drama','Skippy (Jackie Cooper) is the feisty son of the strict Dr. Herbert Skinner (Willard Robertson) and his wife Ellen (Enid Bennett). Skinner forbids his son Skippy to play in the pauperized Shantytown, because of the unhygenical and criminal surroundings there. But Skippy and his friend Sidney (Jackie Searl) still go to Shantytown where Sidney meets a new boy named Sooky (Robert Coogan, Jackie Coogan''s little brother). He saves the small boy Sooky from the much bigger bully Harley Nubbins (Donald Haines). Skippy and Sooky become friends. One day Harley accidentally breaks the windshield of his father''s car with Skippy''s yo-yo. Harley, who has a very aggressive and brute father, blames it on Skippy and Sooky. Mr. Nubbins (Jack Rube Clifford), who works as a dog catcher, takes Sooky''s dog and demands that they pay him for the damages if they want their dog back. The boys gather three dollars by breaking Skippy''s savings bank, but Mr. Nubbins accepts it only for his windshield. He gives them three days to get another three dollars for a dog license and he threatens that he''ll kill their dog if they don''t get the money. Sooky and Skippy spend the next two days selling bottles, lemonade and wood, and staging a performance to earn money. Skippy''s father doesn''t want to lend them the remaining thirty cents. Then Mr. Dubbins kills their dog and Skippy blames his father for it. The next morning, Skippy gets a new bicycle from his father. But he trades the bicycle to his friend, Eloise (Mitzi Green), for her new dog. Skippy takes the dog to Sooky. Dr. Skinner has a change of heart and buys Sooky a licensed dog, finds his mother a job, and refrains from ordering Shantytown destroyed, instead offering assistance to its citizens. For the first time, Dr. Skinner plays with Skippy in Shantytown. There they accidentally break Mr. Nubbins'' new windshield. Dr. Skinner wins a fight against Mr. Nubbins and shows that he is a good father.'
'adventure','Hughes plays Bob, a daredevil aviator in love with Grace (Day). Bob''s reckless behavior and addiction to alcohol causes the death of Grace''s brother, and Bob subsequently loses his job and Grace''s love. Bob puts his life back together and catches a gang of hijackers who were robbing gold shipments from mid-air flights.[2][3]'
'drama, crime','Nick Venizelos (Robinson), a prosperous small-town barber, provides his customers with gambling in his back room. He is so lucky that one suggests he go to the big city to take on famous gambler named Hickory Short. Not lacking in self-confidence, Nick puts up half of the $10,000 stake himself, while the others raise the rest. He leaves the shop under the supervision of his assistant, Jack (Cagney), and takes the train into the city. He learns from Marie, the pretty blonde working at the hotel cigar stand, where Hickory is holding his illegal, high-stakes poker game. Nick sits down at the game, but loses all his money. Later, however, he sees a newspaper article reporting that the real Hickory Short has just been released from prison far away in Florida. The man he thought was Hickory is actually conman Sleepy Sam (Ralf Harolde), and Marie is his girlfriend and accomplice. When Nick foolishly tries to get his money back, Sleepy Sam and the other fake poker players beat him up. After he gets out of the hospital, he vows to get revenge. Nick goes back to barbering and raises another stake. Six months later, he tracks down Sleepy Sam and his gang in another city. He proposes a one-on-one game, each man putting up $50,000 and playing until one man has all the money. Sam accepts. Nick insists on sending out for fresh decks of cards, just to be safe. When Nick wins and tries to leave, the con artists reach for their guns, but Jack and another man burst in with their guns already drawn. Nick then gloats, pointing out that he simply cheated better than Sam by using shaved cards. Nick becomes very successful. He finally gets to play the real Hickory Short; a Walter Winchell column reports the rumor that Nick beat Hickory to the tune of $300,000. Nick becomes the king of illegal gambling in the city, with Jack as his right-hand man. However, he still has a weakness for women, particularly blondes. As they are driving by, they are stopped and asked to take a young woman (Evalyn Knapp) who has been fished half drowned out of the river to the hospital. Irene revives during the ride, but Nick insists she stay at his mansion until she is fully recovered, over the very suspicious Jack''s protests. Eventually, she is so touched by Nick''s kindness, she confesses she is fleeing from a charge of blackmail, but he is unconcerned. Nick is so brazen that public outrage puts pressure on District Attorney Black (an uncredited Morgan Wallace), who is up for re-election soon. He has Irene picked up. Black threatens to prosecute her unless she cooperates in incriminating Nick, but she refuses at first. Finally, he gets her to agree to put a racing form in Nick''s coat, which will be enough to put Nick in jail for a month. Jack finds out, but when he tries to warn his friend, Nick becomes furious and knocks him to the floor. The police raid the illegal casino, and Black arrests Nick. Then they discover that Jack is dead. Aghast, Irene begs Nick for forgiveness, which he generously gives. He is sentenced to ten years. As he is boarding the train to go to prison, he offers to bet that he will be out in five.'
'comedy drama','Mrs. Nancy Gibson (Mary Astor) sets out to regain the affections of her cheating husband Donald Gibson (Robert Ames (actor)), after she returns from a trip to Paris (France), where she had to look after her sick mother. To welcome her in her beautiful house are her servants and husband and wife Billy (Edward Everett Horton) and Sally Ross (Ruth Weston)- Don''s business partner and Don''s sister - that Don is with his mistress, Peggy Preston (Noel Francis), who very often is accompanied by her mother Mrs. Preston (Gladys Gale). Nancy has the affection of the Ross'' and her servants. But she is at first very shocked. Then she decides to play the modern wife and invites Peggy Preston and her mother for the weekend in her house as her guests. Pretending she herself has fallen for a man she met in Europe (in fact she met him on the ship on the way home), Sir Guy Harrington (John Halliday), she invites him too, for distributing well the forces, to gain back her husband, whom she still loves.'
'musical comedy','In Vienna, Lieutenant Nikolaus "Niki" von Preyn (Maurice Chevalier) meets Franzi (Claudette Colbert), the leader of an all-female-orchestra. They soon fall in love with each other. While standing in formation before a parade honoring the visiting royal family of Flausenthurm, Niki takes the opportunity to wink at Franzi in the crowd. Unfortunately the gesture is intercepted by Anna, the Princess of Flausenthurm (Miriam Hopkins). The naive Princess assumes offense, leading the lieutenant to convince her that he slighted her because she is thought to be very beautiful. Besotted, the Princess demands she has to marry the lieutenant, or, she''ll marry an American instead. The international incident is narrowly averted by having them get married. The Lieutenant sneaks away from his bride to wander the streets of Flausenthurm to find his girlfriend. The princess learns of this and decides to confront Franzi. After the initial confrontation, Franzi sees that the princess is in fact deeply in love with the lieutenant, and decides to save the marriage by giving the princess a makeover, singing "Jazz up your lingerie!" The results are a complete success as the Lieutenant follows his satin-clad, cigarette-puffing bride into the bedroom and closes the door – only to open it and give the audience a last song and a suggestive wink.'
'romance','Karim is the son of rajah and jewel merchant Hamid, traveling with him through India. On the twentieth day of their journey, after Karim hears his father speak about the importance of gratitude, they are attacked by bandits. The group of travelers is massacred, but Rao Rama, a holy man, hides Karim in a shallow grave. He survives the tragedy, and is left with his father''s most valuable diamond. Karim next journeys to Bombay, where he attempts to sell the diamond in a jewelry store. Feeling that they aren''t offering him enough money, he leaves. The corrupt store owners claim that Karim is a thief. He is arrested, and unable to prove he is the true owner of his father''s diamond, faces a long prison sentence. William Darsey, an American witness, saves him by revealing the truth and Karim is released. Some time later, Karim becomes one of the wealthiest men of Bombay, attending many high society social functions. At a polo match, he meets Janice Darsey, an attractive young American woman accompanied by her aunt and Dr. Wallace. Feeling attracted to each other, they are soon in love. This is much to Mrs. Darsey''s dislike, who doesn''t approve of her niece dating an Indian man. She attempts to sabotage their relationship by announcing that the Darseys will leave for Kolkota. Janice, however, does not want to leave Karim and runs away from her aunt to secretly accompany Karim on a tiger hunt. When her aunt finds out, she is infuriated and immediately calls for William, who happens to be Janice''s brother. During the hunt, Karim notices his father''s killer. When confronted, the murderer shoots at Karim. Janice starts to hide and stumbles upon a poisonous plant. Karim brings her to safety and removes the poison, after which they become engaged. Back at home, William and Mrs. Darsey try to stop the marriage by telling them lies, but Karim and Janice come to the conclusion that their love for each other is stronger.'
'sports','Gambler Rid Riddell (Clark Gable) works for Tip Scanlon (Lew Cody), a crooked gambler, who buys Tommy-Boy, a racehorse from a wealthy man (Hallam Cooley) whose spoiled wife (Marie Prevost) loses interest. Tip and Rid consistently win with the horse in both honestly and dishonestly run races. But before long, Tommy Boy loses a race he wasn''t supposed to, and the mob is after Tip. Tip is murdered but not before giving Tommy Boy to his girlfriend (Madge Evans) who sets out to rehabilitate herself and the horse. The horse rebounds. After an attempt at sabotage, the horse wins the Kentucky Derby, and Rid wins the girl.'
'drama','A British army officer Captain James Wingate (Warner Baxter) is left disgraced when he takes the blame for his cousin Henry''s (Paul Cavanagh) misappropriation of the regiment''s charitable fund. He heads to the Wild West of the United States, taking over a ranch in Montana where he marries a beautiful Indian squaw Naturich (Lupe Velez) and has a son Hal (Dickie Moore). Years later, Henry is killed in a horse riding accident. Sir John Applegate Kerhill receives a telegram informing him of James''s whereabouts. He arrives with Lady Diana (Eleanor Boardman), with whom James has been secretly in love. However, he remains true to Naturich and introduces her as his wife to the surprised guests. Later, Sir John convinces James to let him take Hal back with him to England where the boy will be educated in the finest schools. Upon having her son taken against her wishes, a grieving Naturich goes into the boy''s room where she shoots herself while holding a toy wooden horse she made for him on his birthday. She soon dies in James''s arms.'
'crime drama','The Leeds family consists of two adult children, their two young brothers, their parents, and Grandpa Summerill, a feisty retired soldier visiting from the old soldiers'' home. Hearing a commotion outside, most of them go to the windows and witness gangster "Maxey" Campo murdering two men. Campo enters the house, assaults Grandpa for confronting him, threatens the family with harm if they talk, and flees by the back exit. District Attorney Whitlock wants to make an example of Campo. The Leedses are naive about the danger to themselves and happy to cooperate, and Campo is arrested on the basis of their information. Whitlock''s assistant plans to put the witnesses in protective custody in jail once Campo is indicted, but the gang acts faster. Pa Leeds is kidnapped and, after he rejects a bribe for the family to recant their identification of Campo, is badly beaten and dumped beside a road. Pa is well enough to stay at home, and Whitlock confines the whole family to their house for their protection. But they now disagree about whether to go through with their testimony. On the day of Campo''s indictment hearing, the youngest boy, Donny, does not want to miss playing in a baseball game. He slips out of the house, but never gets to the game. The family receives a phone call from the gang, threatening Donny''s life if they identify Campo at the hearing. Grandpa still considers it his patriotic duty as an American to tell the truth, but now he is the only one. Only the exchange where the phone call originated is known. The police conduct a massive house-to-house search for Donny in that area — while Grandpa slips away and begins his own search. Meanwhile, Whitlock has to present the witnesses against Campo. Even when threatened with perjury charges, one by one the family members lie and say they aren''t sure or don''t remember. And Grandpa, the star witness Whitlock could count on, is nowhere to be found. Killing time in the apartment where he is being held, Donny starts showing one of his captors a baseball pitch, when he hears Grandpa''s fife outside. He throws the baseball through the window and calls out. Grandpa eventually convinces the police of what is happening, and after a gun battle, Donny is rescued. Whitlock is informed and the judge, who was about to dismiss the indictment, delays the hearing until Grandpa arrives. Delighting in his moment, Grandpa boldly identifies Campo, makes a short speech about Americans'' patriotic duty to stand up to "any dang dirty foreigner" criminals, trips Campo off his feet in retaliation for the earlier assault, and then declares he is ready to begin his testimony. A newspaper headline tells us that Campo has been executed. Grandpa returns to the old soldiers'' home.'
'drama','Mary, a girl of the streets, and Joe, a young thief, rob twenty thousand dollars and decide to spend all the money and then commit suicide. But Joe''s conscience speaks louder and he confesses the crime. He goes to prison knowing that Mary will wait for him.'
'drama','Lisbeth is a modern woman who thinks that marriage is old fashioned. She has two men in her life; Steve, who wants to marry her and Alan, who wants her to travel with him. Despite all the warnings by her friends and family, Lisbeth goes to Mexico with Alan where she is happy until she finds out that he has a wife in Paris and that he is leaving for his next job without her. Devastated, she spends a few years in Europe being the life of the party. While her reputation is well known, her life of gaiety has not made her happy.'
'drama','On a hot summer afternoon in New York, Emma Jones gossips with other neighbors in her residential building about the affair that Mrs. Anna Maurrant and the milkman Steve Sankey are having. When the rude and unfriendly Mr. Frank Maurrant arrives, they change the subject. Meanwhile, their teenage daughter Rose Maurrant is being sexually pressured by her married boss Mr. Bert Easter. She does however very much like her kind young Jewish neighbor Sam, who has a serious crush on her. The next morning, Frank Maurrant tells his wife that he is traveling to Stamford on business. Mrs. Maurrant meets the gentle Sankey in her apartment, but out of the blue Frank comes back home. He realizes his wife is upstairs with Sankey, and runs upstairs. We hear shots and see the two men struggling as Sankey tries to escape through the window. Maurrant runs out with a gun. He has killed Sankey and fatally wounded his wife. Maurrant is apprehended and is led away by police. He apologizes to his daughter Rose, who will now have to take care of herself and her young brother without either parent. Rose''s boss offers once again to set her up in her own apartment, but she refuses. Then she sees Sam, and tells him she wants to leave the city. Sam pleads with her to let him go with her, but she tells him it will be better for the two of them to have a couple of years apart before they consider becoming a couple. Rose walks off down the street by herself.'
'comedy','Snubbish, quick-tempered Henry Greene (George Meeker) and his fiancee Isabelle Perry (Sidney Fox) stop into a New York speakeasy owned by Tomasso Antiovi (William Ricciardi) for a drink. There, they meet retired Judge Dempsey (Lewis Stone), an amiable man who befriends the Southern belle, much to Henry''s dismay. Famous opera singer "Tino Caraffa", a charming but notorious playboy whose real name is "Gus" Di Ruvo, (Paul Lukas) is there as well, and while Henry is gone to move his illegally parked car, Gus and Isabelle, an opera fan, get acquainted. When Henry returns he''s incensed to learn that the two of them have been dancing together. He wants Isabelle to leave with him, but she refuses and breaks off their engagement, returning his ring. Henry tries to get the police to help him force Isabelle to leave, by telling them that she has been "kidnapped by villains", but Judge Dempsey sets them straight, getting Henry arrested and taken away. Gus offers to put Isabelle up for the night, assuring her that his intentions are "strictly dishonorable". The Judge warns Isabelle about Gus, but she is adamant about staying, since she has fallen in love. So, too, has Gus: overwhelmed by Isabelle''s sweetness and innocence, he spends the night in Judge Dempsey''s apartment. The next morning, Henry returns and tries to get Isabelle to come back to him. Despite appearances, she assures him that she has not lost her virtue and wants to know if he is still "pure", but he insists that it is "entirely different" for men. She reluctantly agrees to remain engaged to Henry, and he leaves to wait for her outside. Gus arrives and proposes marriage to Isabelle, but she does not believe that he loves her, and she leaves. When Gus and the judge go to get a drink, they find Isabelle there, crying. She confesses that she does love Gus, and the judge goes to tell Henry not to wait.[2][4][5]'
'war','Three friends who work on the Coney Island boardwalk, Skeets O''Reilly, Baltimore Clark, and Dutch Herman are all in love with the same woman, Sally. At the outbreak of World War I, the three men enlist in the US Navy. Before they leave for active duty, both Skeets and Baltimore meet with Sally, with the intention of letting her know how they feel about her. Baltimore can''t bear the thought of Sally rejecting him, so he never discloses the depths of his feelings towards her. Skeets does propose to her, which she gently declines, being secretly in love with Baltimore. The three are assigned to a US Naval destroyer, Dutch and Skeets subordinate to Baltimore, who is promoted to a chief petty officer, because he has served in the navy before. A German U-boat intercepts a sailing ship flying Norwegian colors, and when the German officer boards the ship, the Norwegian captain shares information with him regarding the movements of allied shipping, thus showing us that the Norwegian ship is an undercover "message ship" for the Germans. Shortly after this encounter, the destroyer carrying the three friends also intercepts the sailing ship. In an attempt to destroy incriminating evidence, the Norwegian captain sets the ship afire. The three sailors are part of the boarding party, and Baltimore manages to take possession of coded dispatches prior to the ship''s sinking. After the messages are decoded, it enables the US Navy to equip a fake "message ship", and O''Reilly, Clark and Herman are part of the crew assigned to man the vessel. The message ship cruises the Atlantic, hoping to be approached by a German submarine. Eventually they are, and during the encounter, they learn of the German plans to ambush and sink a fleet of American destroyers. As the Germans are about to leave, one of their officers becomes suspicious of the crew of the phony message ship. He exposes the American subterfuge, and the Germans return to their submarine and ready to sink the sailing ship. Before they can, Dutch manages to get a warning off to the American fleet. The US destroyers arrive, and the three German U-boats are sunk, two by American destroyers, and the third by the sailing ship. The three men return as heroes to the United States, and Baltimore marries Sally.'
'war','During World War I, the wily and attractive French POW Sergeant Dumaine is sequestered in a prison camp near the castle of a prideful Prussian nobleman and military general, Count Reichendorf, who lives for the day that his four sons will march triumphantly into Paris. Having lost three sons to the French and English armies, and left with only one son, Dietrich, Reichendorf laments the days when his family made Prussia "the might of land." He is forced to recruit military men from the prison camp. Axelle, the daughter of one of the sons, who became his ward when her parents died, lives in the Reichendorf castle and makes periodic goodwill visits to the prison compound, where she first encounters Dumaine. Captain Ebbing, the martinet and disfigured prison commandant, develops an interest in Axtelle. He courts her, but Axelle shows little interest in him, and when he reminds her how he dazzled her before he went into battle, she rejects his affections and tells him that she is engaged to Dietrich. Ebbing pleads with her, insisting that his love for her is more intense and enduring than that of any other man, but she is not swayed. Ebbing soon puts Dumaine and the other prisoners to work at the unpleasant task of burial detail. When Dumaine, Fichet and other prisoners escape by overpowering the guards, they break into the Reichendorf castle and take refuge there, but are soon discovered by Axelle and taken back to the prison. One day, after noticing billows of smoke coming from the castle, Dumaine heroically rushes into the castle and puts out a kitchen fire. In gratitude for his valor, Ebbing commissions Dumaine, an electrical engineer by profession, to wire the castle. Dumaine''s new assignment puts him in close contact with Axelle, and they soon become friends. After one month, Axelle begins to trust Dumaine and suggests that he remove his prison number from his uniform. When news reaches Germany that Dietrich has led his regiment in victorious battle against the French, an end to the war is predicted. Axelle is overjoyed at the news, but Dumaine, whose loyalties still remain with France, is upset. Back at the prison, Dumaine''s fellow inmates resent Dumaine''s privileged status at the castle, and plan a breakout without him. Soon after Dietrich returns from the battlefront, he discovers his fiancée in the arms of Dumaine, and learns that Ebbing, too, is trying to woo Axelle, so he decides to return to the front. When the jealous Ebbing learns of Dumaine''s affair with Axelle, he sends the Frenchman to be executed despite Axelle''s pleas to spare him. Ebbing later has a change of heart, however, and decides to call off the execution. News of the Armistice and the end of the war brings with it orders to suspend all disciplinary action against prisoners of war, and Ebbing, who sees no further use for himself as a military leader, commits suicide. With the battlelines suddenly erased, Dumaine and Axelle resume their romance with a kiss.'
'drama','Helga Ohlin (Greta Garbo) is an illegitimate child born and raised in an abusive home. Her uncle, Karl Ohlin (Jean Hersholt), arranges for her to marry a lout, Jeb Mondstrum (Alan Hale), but she runs away and meets Rodney Spencer (Clark Gable), an architect who is renting a cabin down the road from her family''s farm. When Rodney leaves the cabin, her father and Jeb find her. She runs away again and hops onto a train that has just embarked. She enters a room filled with a circus troupe. She joins them as a dancer, but writes letters to Spencer to meet her in Marquette; she now has been given the name of "Susan Lenox". While the police search for her on the train, the leader of the circus group, Wayne Burlingham (John Miljan), hides her in his quarters and then takes advantage of her. She meets Rodney in Marquette, but they have a misunderstanding, because of her indiscretions with Burlingham, and he leaves. She runs away to New York and becomes the mistress of Mike Kelly (Hale Hamilton), a politician. At a dinner party at Kelly''s penthouse, Mrs. Lenox invites Spencer, falsely concerning a new contract for him. He arrives not knowing the woman he is to meet, but they have another misunderstanding, and he once again leaves. Susan desperately goes to Spencer''s home, but finds that he has left without telling where. She vows to search for him, and eventually she ends up in Puerto Sacate of South America working as a dancer in a dance hall. There, she is romanced by an American, Robert Lane (Ian Keith), who arrives by yacht and wants to take her away with him and marry her. But, Susan yearns to meet-up with Spencer and vows to "rise or fall alone." A barge with men working in the swamps arrive at the port, and a group of them, including Spencer, disembark and arrive at the dance hall. Susan and Spencer meet, and after some arguing, they finally end up rekindling their relationship.'
'comedy','Bud Doyle is a jockey who has discovered the secret to get his favorite mount, Six-Shooter, to boost his performance. If he simply chants the phrase, "Whoop-te-doo", the horse responds with a burst of speed. There is a special bond between the jockey and his mount, but there is increasing tension between Doyle and the horse''s owner, Pop Blake (who also raised Doyle), over Doyle''s relationship with local singer Babe Ellis. Blake sees Ellis as a distraction prior to the upcoming big race, the Camden Stakes. The owner of the club where Babe sings, Wally Weber, has his eyes on his horse winning the Camden Stakes. When the issues between Pop and Doyle come to a head, Pop tells Doyle that he has to choose: either he stops seeing Babe, or he''ll be replaced as Six-Shooter''s jockey in the big race. Angry and frustrated, Doyle quits. Weber approaches him to become the jockey for Rose Dawn, Weber''s horse, and Doyle agrees, with the precondition that he not ride Royal Dawn in the Camden Stakes, for he wants Six-Shooter to still win the race. Weber accedes to that one precondition, however, on the day of the race, he makes it clear that Doyle is under contract, and that he will ride Rose Dawn in the race. Upset, Doyle has no choice but to ride Rose Dawn. However, during the race, he manages to chant his signature "Whoop-te-doo" to Six-Shooter, causing his old mount to win the race. Furious that his horse lost, Weber goes to the judges, who rule that Doyle threw the race, pulling back on Rose Dawn, to allow Six-Shooter to win, and suspend Doyle from horse-racing. Devastated, Doyle wanders from town to town, riding in small local races, until his identity is uncovered, and he is forced to move on. Soon, he is out of racing all together, and forced to taking one odd-job after another. Eventually, he ends up south of the border, in Tijuana, Mexico, working as a waiter. Doyle''s friend, Sleepy Jones, hears of Doyle''s plight. Jones gets the racing commission to lift the ban, by proving Doyle''s innocence. He then, accompanied by Babe, gets a group to buy Six-Shooter from Pop, and they take the horse down to Tijuana, where there is another big race in the near future, the Tijuana Handicap. Doyle is reluctant to ride at first, however, he is eventually cajoled into it by Sleepy and Babe, and of course, his bond with Six-Shooter is there. He rides the horse to victory, re-establishing his credentials as a rider. The film ends by jumping a few years into the future, which shows Doyle and Babe happily married, with a child of their own.'
'drama','Aged emissary Hitu arrives by Western sailing ship to the island of Bora Bora, a small island in the South Pacific, on an important mission. He bears a message from the chief of Fanuma to the chief of Bora Bora: a maiden sacred to their gods has died, and Reri has been given the great honour of replacing her because of her royal blood and virtue. From this point on, she is tabu: "man must not touch her or cast upon her the eye of desire" upon penalty of death. This is painful news to Reri and the young man Matahi, who love each other. Matahi cannot bear it. That night, he sneaks her off the ship, and the couple escape the island by outrigger canoe. Eventually, they reach a French colony, half dead. They recover quickly, and Matahi becomes the community''s most successful pearl diver. They are happy with their new life together. However, Matahi is unfamiliar with the concept of money, so he does not understand the bills he signs for drinks for everyone during a celebration. The local policeman receives a notice from the French government announcing a reward for the return of the couple, but Matahi bribes him with his last pearl. Then, Hitu arrives on the island and sees Reri alone, informing her that she has three days to give herself up or Matahi will be put to death. Without telling Matahi of her meeting with Hitu, Reri decides they must flee once more. However, when Matahi goes to buy tickets on a schooner, the shopkeepers instead take the money as partial payment of his debt. That night, Hitu returns with a spear. Reri first throws herself in front of the sleeping Matahi, then agrees to return to Bora Bora to save his life. When Matahi stirs, Reri pretends to be asleep. Matahi gets up and decides to get money by getting a pearl from a tabu region of the lagoon, a perilous place guarded by a shark that has already taken the life of one diver. While he is away, Reri writes a farewell note, and leaves with Hitu. Matahi manages to get a pearl while fending off the shark. When he returns, however, he finds the note. He swims after Hitu''s boat. He manages to grab a rope trailing from the boat, unbeknownst to the sleeping Reri, but Hitu cuts it. Undaunted, Matahi continues swimming after them until he eventually tires and drowns.'
'drama','Nancy Courtney, a once wealthy socialite, has had to struggle to maintain a facade of prosperity ever since her father''s death. Although she loves writer DeWitt Taylor, who is indifferent to amassing a fortune, her mother urges her to marry stockbroker Norman Cravath instead. Nancy acquiesces to her mother''s wishes but, despite the fact her new husband does everything he can to please her, she is miserable in her marriage. Meanwhile, DeWitt has begun romancing Norman''s former girl friend Germaine Prentiss, Nancy''s long-time rival. She realizes DeWitt''s relationship with Germaine is changing him into a social climber. Unaware Norman''s firm has just been barred from the stock market and he is facing financial ruin, Nancy tells her husband she is leaving him. She learns of Norman''s bankruptcy in the newspaper and, together with her friend Ben Sterner, she goes to a speakeasy where she proceeds to get drunk. She and Ben bring some of the bar patrons to his home, where they encounter Norman, who is waiting there to discuss a business transaction with Ben. Seeing his wife in such a disreputable state, he tells her he never wants to see her again. Nancy tries to live on her own but, lacking any skills, she is unable to find employment and becomes destitute. When she discovers she is pregnant, Ben offers her a place to live and, after the birth of her child, he hires her to work in his department store. Norman and Germaine come in to purchase a fur coat, and Norman is stunned to find Nancy in a menial position. Germaine tries to warn Nancy away, but realizing her husband still loves her, Nancy asks him for another chance. Germaine bows out and leaves Norman with his forgiven wife and infant son.'
'romance drama','A beautiful streetwise taxi dancer named Barbara O''Neill works at a New York City dance hall called Palais de Dance. One of the dance hall''s wealthy patrons, Bradley Carlton, comes to the hall and gives Barbara $100. Concerned about her unemployed friend and neighbor Eddie Miller, Barbara asks Bradley to give him a job, and he agrees. That night they have dinner together. When Barbara gets home, Eddie is in the process of packing his bags; he can no longer afford to pay his rent. Barbara gives him the $100 she received from Bradley and tells him about his new job. Later, Eddie and Barbara meet in the park and realize that they are in love. The next night at the dance hall, Barbara receives a gift of a new dress, but is disappointed when she sees that it was sent by Bradley. Eddie arrives at the dance hall and asks Barbara to marry him. Barbara accepts his proposal and soon quits her job. Five months later, Eddie meets an old friend Ralph Clark and his sister Nancy, and does not reveal that he is now married. They play cards together and Eddie loses $240, something he hides from Barbara. He claims to be at a convention, but in fact he meets a woman, Nancy. Later, Eddie returns to find the rent and utilities past due because he has spent his pay gambling. Meanwhile, Barbara returns to work at the dance hall, where she sees Bradley occasionally. Later, Barbara returns home and discovers Eddie packing his bags. Admitting that he stole $5,000 from Bradley''s office safe, he tells her that he lost that money playing the stock market. Barbara is able to talk him into staying, and she visits Bradley and asks him for a $5,000 loan. Bradley agrees because he is in love with her. The next morning, Barbara presents the money to Eddie who accepts it immediately. When Eddie returns from work, he and Barbara engage in a jealous fight. Soon after, she packs her belongings and returns to the dance hall, where she is met by Bradley who has two tickets for the Ile de France, where Barbara can obtain a divorce and marry him.'
'drama','Socialite Valentine "Val" Winters (Joan Crawford) is a child of divorced parents and has not seen her sophisticate mother, Diane, (Pauline Frederick), in years. Indeed, Diane had all but forgotten about Val, as the courts awarded sole custody of Val to her father, who had recently died. Val travels to Paris for a reunion where her mother is living as the mistress of André de Graignon (Albert Conti). While in Paris, Valentine meets fun-loving and alcoholic Tony (Monroe Owsley), who is in Diane''s social circle. When Valentine and Tony are involved in car wreck, they are rescued from his overturned car by football-playing Harvardian Bob Blake Jr. (Neil Hamilton). Bob and Valentine fall in love, and, when he invites his parents (Hobart Bosworth and Emma Dunn) to meet her, everything goes wrong as they do not approve of Tony and his boisterous friends or of Diane''s living arrangement with Andre. Later, Bob overhears a conversation between Diane and André de Graignon during which André complains about his life being on hold for Val and that he is kicking Diane out of his house. Bob tries to rush their marriage plans so that he can take her away from her mother''s deception without Val discovering the truth, but when she resists, he tells her the truth about her mother and implores her to forget about her and her friends and abscond with him. Insulted, Val says the allegations about the house not being Diane''s are a lie and that she loves her mother over anything, and then she spurns Bob. Val goes to her mother, and when Diane becomes alarmed that Val may have put her relationship with the wealthy Bob in jeopardy, Diane tells her the truth. Val is a bit shocked, but is determined to stay with her mother no matter the consequences. The two move into a much smaller apartment, and Tony comes by because he is still smitten with Val. However, unbeknownst to Val, Diane recontacted André and told him that she would leave Val to travel Europe with him. Diane gives the news of her impending departure to her daughter, who is heartbroken at her mother''s betrayal. Diane leaves and visits Bob for a final time. She tells him that she went to his parents to beg for mercy for Val''s sake. They reject Diane''s entreaties. Having done this, Diane''s reputation in Paris is ruined, which is why she took the opportunity to go away with André. Suddenly, Bob views his parents attitude of condemning Val for her mother''s sins as antiquated and shameful, and the two embrace. Bob goes to Val and they are reunited to continue their relationship.'
'drama','Helga Larson Hanson is living in Sweden, but is engaged to the American fledgling attorney John Hanson. Hanson has Helga move to the United States, and sets her up in the same boarding house he lives in, prior to their marriage. His summons of her might be a bit premature, since once she arrives, he is too busy with his job and preparing for his bar exam, to spend much time with her. Lonely, she becomes attracted to a co-worker of Hanson''s, Phil Wilson, who sees an opportunity to use Helga''s loneliness to have his way with her. Hanson is oblivious to Wilson''s intent, believing him to be a friend. As time goes on, their landlady, Aunt Annie, becomes suspicious of Wilson, and warns Hanson. When Hanson confronts his co-worker, of course Hanson lies, assuring him that his interest in Helga is simply platonic. Clueless, Hanson accepts this explanation. Meanwhile Wilson continues his seduction of Helga, finally getting her to sleep with him by falsely promising to marry her. Meanwhile, Hanson gets himself into some legal difficulty, when his investments go south and he loses the money he had been saving to buy a house for Helga and himself. Fearing that his loss of the money might lead to his losing Helga, he steals the balance from Wilson''s drawer. When the theft is discovered, Wilson is naturally blamed, and Hanson, having learned of Helga''s infidelity with Wilson, lets him be arrested for the crime. Heartbroken, Helga settles for marriage with Hanson. Years later, Wilson breaks out of prison, and goes to confront Hanson, who is now living with Helga and their young child. When Wilson realizes that Helga is still in love with Wilson, he decides to own up to the crime. Before he can, however, Helga realizes that she has grown to love him. As Wilson tries to flee from their house, he is shot and killed by police. Helga begs Hanson not to confess, since there is no longer a reason to, but Hanson must clear his conscience. As he is led away, Helga vows that she will be waiting for him when he is eventually released.'
'comedy','Young Tommy Jordan (Eddie Quillan) is sent for a repair job. When he arrives at the address he was told, two guys are waiting for him on the street, bringing him somewhere else - without letting him see where - to repair a radio. He jokes about "must be a hide-out, that I should not know where I am", for which he earns a "you''re a smart guy". When left in the apartment doing his job, he follows a wire and ends up in the bedroom, lying on the floor under the bed. At this point, the telephone rings and a woman comes out of the bathroom and answers. He is trapped under the bed and can only see her legs. When the lady has finished her conversation, they have to talk and he is told that his great idol Kayo McClure (Robert Armstrong (actor)) a fighter lives in that apartment. She herself is "famous" Babyface (Ginger Rogers) the woman of McClure. When McClure comes back home, Tommy manages to hide and when Gang leader Nick Vatelli (Ralf Harolde) appears in McClure''s apartment with his men threatening him, Tommy acts as Policeofficers through the radio-microphone, so that they leave the flat. McClure is forever thankful to Tommy and he offers him to help him whenever he needs it. McClure hands him out a ticket to a ball. When he gets to the ball there is Baby-Face eager to dance with him. To avoid being mixed up too much with her attracting jealousy of McClure he grabs another girl, that was handy to him, to dance. But this girl is even worse, as she is the fiancé of Nick, Edna Moreno (Joan Peers). Tommy is very fond of her and when Nick appears he finally takes Edna with him to McClure, to hide for a night. The next day Babyface argues with McClure about hiding the kids, threatening to leave him. Edna leaves the apartment without saying anything. Tommy finds out where she is, and with the help of McClure he saves her from marrying Nick. As the movie ends, Tommy and Edna get married.'
'comedy','Nella Vargo (Swanson) is a Hungarian prima donna whose latest performances include singing Tosca in Venice. Although she is praised by the audience, her music teacher Rudig feels that she can not be the greatest opera singer in history until she performs in New York City. When she is criticized for not putting her soul into the song, she gets mad, until she suddenly notices a mysterious man walking on the street. She becomes smitten with the man, until Rudig claims that he is a gigolo whose latest client is Marchesa Bianca San Giovanni, a former diva with a notorious past. Later that night, Nella decides to head to Budapest, accompanied by Rudig, her butler Conrad, her maid Emma and her fiancé Count Albert von Gronac, whom she is not in love with. She is shocked when she finds out the mysterious man is on board as well, with the marchesa as his company. Rudig again suggests that she will never be a great singer if she does not experience love. The next day, Rudig announces that Fletcher is in town to sign European artists, an agent for the prestigious Metropolitan Opera in New York. Later that afternoon, she finds out her fiancé is having an affair with one of her enemies. Furious and upset with her love life, she goes to the hotel where she is staying and decides to hire the mysterious man, Jim, in hopes of experience love and thereby impress Fletcher. She is attracted to him, but is afraid to have her as his admirer. Jim, who is actually agent Fletcher, soon finds out that Nella thinks that he is a gigolo. Instead of revealing the truth, he pretends to be one and dominantly forces her to make a decision: spend the night with him or leave within 2 minutes. Nella decides to spend the night with him, but leaves the next morning before he awakes. That night, she again gives a performance of Tosca, which is acclaimed as her best in her entire career. After returning home, she is overcome by joy to find out that she has landed a contract with the Metropolitan Opera, but feels guilty for what she has done the night before. The same day, Jim visits her, returning the necklace she has left to pay for his services and demanding her to choose between him and the contract. When she tears up the contract, he realizes that she is in love with him and he reveals himself to be a nephew of the marchesa and the famous talent scout. Now, Nella can have the successful New York career she has dreamt of.'
'romantic comedy','Engaged couple Albert Bennett (Bert Wheeler) and Alice Cook (Dorothy Lee) plan on leaving the city where they both live, in order to build their dream house in the country. They visit the site of their future home, both before, and while it is only the foundation, and later during its continued construction. The happiness over the new foundation soon dissolves as Albert and Alice start to argue about the floor plan, particularly the intended use of one unused upstairs room, whether it should be used as a den for him - "where I can flick cigar ashes all over, and there''s no kick coming" or a fully equipped sewing room for Alice. This problem is made worse when dozens of Alice’s family members come to help, each offering different opinions for Alice''s proposed use of the room in the new house. Albert’s bachelor uncle/employer George (Robert McWade) comes to inspect the house, during which time he mentions with great enthusiasm the recent return of a young woman named Minnie, the daughter of a friend of his, who had sent her off to Europe, "finishing her" as in finishing her cultural education, and apparently doing everything extremely well. Uncle George, when he mentions her to Albert, described her desirable virtues to him, and asks if Albert would be able to break off his engagement to Alice honorably, in favor of pursuing a relationship with Minnie. This of course, is immediately, but tactfully refused, with an attempt at describing Alice''s virtues in a similarly positive light. Then Uncle George, in debating his own living circumstances with Albert, and Albert''s best friend, Frank Andrews (Hallam Cooley) also offered to pay for it, in exchange for living with the newlywed couple on its completion. Alice’s family vehemently opposes, during which time Uncle George again brings up Minnie as someone Albert really should come to see, but another rebuff causes the offended George to fire Albert. Due to his apparent connection with another woman, at least as she hears her mentioned, Alice calls off their engagement, handing her engagement ring back to Albert, and suggesting tearfully that it might fit Minnie. Time passes, and the unemployed and single Albert completes the house himself, along with the assistance of local townsfolk who hear of his predicament, and decides to sell it. Alice returns to see the now completed house and she and Albert reconcile. A now happily married George (to Minnie no less, who unknown to Alice, came to see the house as it was listed for sale in the paper, in the same horse-drawn jitney in which Alice traveled there) returns and rehires Albert, and buys the house, only to give it to the new couple as a wedding gift.'
'sports','Football coach Dan Curtis (Richard Arlen) has to decide how much he wants to win, when one of his players is injured, when he puts in him the game to play, while still recovering from a previous injury.[1] Veteran coach "Pop" Stewart (J. Farrell MacDonald) warns him that winning at all costs isn''t worth it; and, he could lose a lot more than a game, including the respect of his old friend Babe (Jack Oakie); his girl, Mary (Peggy Shannon); and, his player, Paul (Charles Starrett) could lose his life.[2]'
'drama, adventure','The film depicts the adventures of real-life trader and adventurer Alfred Aloysius "Trader" Horn, while on safari in Africa. The fictional parts of the plot include the discovery of a white blonde jungle queen, the lost daughter of a missionary, played by Miss Booth. The realistic part includes a scene in which Carey as Horn swings on a vine across a river filled with genuine crocodiles, one of which comes very close to taking his leg off.'
'drama','Required to travel to India for a year to oversee financial matters, English businessman Robert Maury (Paul Cavanagh) is in a quandary regarding his young wife. His older sister, Honora (Nance O''Neil), suggest that he leave her at their country estate, where she can keep an eye on her. But his wife, Elsie (Kay Francis), is fearful of the boredom which may set in if she were to remain on the isolated property. Maury gives in to his wife''s fears, and decides to allow her to move to Paris for the duration of his time on the sub-continent. In Paris, she falls under the guidance of the sophisticated Paula Vrain (Doris Lloyd), who begins to teach her how to fit into the decadent Parisian lifestyle. She quickly assimilates to her surroundings, and begins to attract attention from the men in her social sphere. One in particular, a Spanish nobleman named Don Arturo de Borgus (Ricardo Cortez), begins to pay her special attention. Elsie struggles to keep the relationship platonic, and as her husband''s year-long absence draws to a close, she decides that the temptation has become too great. With Maury''s return imminent, Elsie is convinced to attend one last party by Paula, who unbeknownst to Elsie is working on Don Arturo''s behalf. At the party the Spanish nobleman gives Elsie''s seduction one last-ditch attempt. And it is beginning to work. Arturo invites Elsie to spend the weekend at his estate in Spain. She is considering the offer when Maury shows up unexpectedly. He is dismayed by the changes in his wife. He had left an innocent behind, and now he has come back to a sophisticated, jaded woman. His dismay, coupled with their year-long separation, causes him to act cool towards her. It is this coolness which makes up her mind. When Maury requests that she return to England with him the next day, she defers, saying she wants to stay behind to say goodbye to the friends she has made while in Paris. After Maury leaves for England, she heads to Arturo''s. Once there, Arturo begins an all-assault to sexually seduce her. In this, he is abetted by his servant, Serafin (John St. Polis). As she weakens, before she will fully succumb, her conscious makes her write a letter to her husband in England, confessing everything. She gives the letter to Serafin to post for her, and is about to fully give in to Arturo, when a local peasant, Carlos (Agostino Borgato), appears and accuses Arturo of seducing and impregnating his young daughter, who died during childbirth. Furious, Carlos shoots and kills Arturo. Horrified at her almost tragic mistake, she realizes that she must intercept her confession before Maury has an opportunity to read it. Serafin claims that he has already written it, so Elsie determines to return to the English estate and intercept it there. Back in England, she waits day by day to head off the postman. Her furtive actions arouse the suspicions of Honora. When she discovers a news article regarding Arturo''s death, those suspicions are heightened, believing that Elsie might have been the unnamed woman mentioned in that article. When she accuses Elsie of infidelity in front of Maury, he defends his wife, leading to Honora deciding to finally leave the estate. It is shortly after that Serafina arrives, threatening to reveal Elsie and Arturo''s relationship to Maury, and claiming that he is carrying the confessional letter. Realizing that she loves her husband, she refuses to help in the plan to hurt him. When Serafin confronts Maury with the lurid details, he is disappointed, for Maury refuses to be outraged. Chastened, Serafin departs, and Maury accepts his wife back into his loving arms.'
'drama','While waiting to see the owner of the store who is potentially a new big client, Barry Greene, a traveling salesman, practices his sales pitch on Ellen Wilson. Unbeknownst to Barry, Ellen is the daughter of his potential client, J.C. Wilson. Her father, obsessed with business, has neglected his daughter. When she goes in to speak with her father, his usual lack of interest in her life causes her to decide to teach him a lesson by living a wild life. Angered by his daughter, when J.C. meets with Barry, he has no desire to listen to the salesman, and has him thrown out of the building. On his way out, Ellen offers him a ride to his hotel. En route, the two make a date for dinner that night. Back at the hotel, Barry''s compatriots, all "traveling husbands" (married traveling salesmen), are enjoying a party with several call girls. One of the prostitutes, Ruby Smith, has fallen in love with one of the salesmen, Ben Hall. Barry has no interest in joining the party, despondent over his failure with J.C. This is exacerbated when Barry learns that his expense account has been put on hold until he can prove himself. Not being able to afford his dinner with Ellen, he calls her up and cancels their dinner date. Disappointed that her dinner has been canceled, Ellen is determined to have a good time that evening, and decides to go to the hotel for dinner by herself. When Ellen shows up at the hotel she attracts Ben''s attention, who joins her for dinner. After dinner, in an attempt to awe her, Ben takes Ellen on a whirlwind tour of Detroit nightspots. When they arrive back at the hotel, Ben takes Ellen back to his room. When he attempts to force his attentions on her, her cries arouse several people, one of whom is Barry. When Barry bursts into Ben''s room, an altercation occurs. In the dark, a gunshot is heard, and when the lights come on, Ben lies on the floor, shot. In the ensuing investigation, it is uncovered that Ruby shot Ben in a jealous fit of rage. Martha, Ben''s wife, has arrived and reconciles with her husband. J.C. has also arrived, and realizes how he has ignored his daughter. He, Ellen and Barry leave the hotel together.'
'drama','Suave English thief Barrington Hunt (Ronald Colman) rendezvous with his uncouth American accomplice, Smiley Corbin (Warren Hymer), at a rundown hotel in the Sahara Desert beyond the reach of French authority. Hunt is annoyed to learn that Smiley, who has a weakness for women, lost the proceeds from the latest robbery when he met a "dame". Hunt soon finds a new target for his larceny in the aged, blind Baron de Jonghe (Tully Marshall), a longtime hotel resident with an unsuspected cache of stolen money. He sets out to determine its hiding place by romancing Camille (Fay Wray), de Jonghe''s attentive, inexperienced relative. When Smiley falls for Eliza Mowbray (Estelle Taylor), however, he blabs to her his boss''s plan. Soon, every one of the motley assortment of fugitive criminals and murderers who inhabit the hotel knows, and Hunt is forced to promise each a share of the loot. To complicate matters even further, Hunt falls in love with Camille, and she with him. The location of the money is revealed when the baron becomes extremely agitated when Hunt offers to start a fire in his in-suite fireplace. Hunt keeps this discovery to himself, but tells Smiley to borrow the key to Eliza''s car. The crooks, having grown impatient with Hunt''s leisurely courtship of Camille, demand action. Hunt suggests privately to pairs of criminals that the money would be better divided amongst three partners. They all agree. Meanwhile, Alfred (Charles Hill Mailes), the baron''s brother, arrives with a promise of amnesty if de Jonghe will return the money he stole. De Jonghe insists it is legitimately his, and that Camille is to have it after he is gone. Later, when de Jonghe leaves his room to enjoy holiday festivities, Hunt sneaks in, searches the chimney and locates the money. He pockets the loot and puts the metal box back where he found it, then slips away. De Jonghe becomes suspicious and returns to his room. As he is retrieving the box, he is seen by one of the crooks, who shoots him dead and flees with the box, unaware it is empty. The sound of the gunshot rouses the rest of the residents. It does not take long for them to realize that Hunt has double crossed them all. However, while Smiley holds them off with his gun, Hunt gives Camille the money and sends her to safety with Alfred de Jonghe. He tells the tearful young woman that this is the first good thing he has ever done and that she will be better off if she is not found in the company of a wanted fugitive. Then, he and Smiley make good their own escape. As they are driving off, Smiley asks about his share of the money. Hunt presents him with a flower, explaining that he met a "dame".'
'drama','Bob Marshall gets a promotion at a newspaper thanks to his reporter pal Collins, who owed him a favor. Marshall is assigned to be society columnist Myra Deane''s escort to a ball. He falls for Myra and buys her a bracelet from his meager savings. Arriving uninvited at her luxurious apartment, Bob is shocked to discover Myra is romantically involved with William Winter, a married man who is also their boss. Bob slugs him during a quarrel. Winter''s skull hits a table and he dies, but Myra lies, insisting Winter is merely unconscious, hoping to avoid a scandal. She moves the body once Bob leaves. Bob reads about Winter''s death in the paper and turns himself in to the law as the culprit. He is convicted of murder and sentenced to be executed before Myra comes forward with the truth. Bob later receives a package with the bracelet inside, along with Myra''s invitation to return it to her in person.'
'adventure film','Set on the coast of Newfoundland, a rivalry develops between Jed Nelson (Arthur Vinton), a seal hunter, and Luke Oarum (Charles Starrett), a local man considered a jinx. Worried that his rival may try to steal his girlfriend Mary Joe (Louise Huntington), calling him a coward, the seal hunter goads Luke into accompanying him on an Arctic sealing expedition on the Viking, commanded by Capt. Barker (Robert Bartlett).. They both end up in a hunting party on the ice floes and eventually find themselves stranded. Jed tries to kill Luke, but the snow blinds him and his gunshot misses. Despite the attempt on his life, Luke helps walk the blinded Jed [clarification needed] across the ice flows back to Newfoundland after they are unable to return to the ship. On recovering his sight at home, Jed gains new respect for his rival and vows that he will beat senseless any man who derides the character of his new friend.'
'drama, war','Unable to find work in London at the height of World War I, American chorus girl Myra Deauville resorts to prostitution to support herself. She meets her clients on Waterloo Bridge, the primary entry point into the city for soldiers on leave. During an air raid, she meets fellow American Roy Cronin, a member of the Canadian Army. Distracted from her original plans by an air raid, she makes no attempt solicit Roy and he remains naively unaware of her profession. After the raid is over, Roy escorts her to her apartment and the two have dinner there. Describing herself simply as an unemployed chorus girl, Myra gains Roy''s sympathy, and he offers to pay her overdue rent. After she rejects his offer and he departs, Myra returns to the streets. The following morning, Roy returns to visit her, and landlady Mrs. Hobley lets him into her apartment. There he meets Myra''s friend and neighbor Kitty, who tells him Myra needs someone to love and protect her. Myra later berates Kitty for interfering and rejects her advice to marry Roy to ensure a better future for herself. Roy brings Myra to visit his family at their country estate, where he proposes to Myra, who later that night tells Roy''s mother, Mary, the truth about herself. Mary is sympathetic but implores Myra not to marry Roy. The following morning, Myra slips away and returns to London by train. Eventually Roy visits her and asks her to explain her abrupt departure. Because he is on the verge of returning to the battlefields in France, he begs Myra to marry him immediately. She agrees, but escapes from her apartment through a window while he waits for her in the hallway. Seeking the rent, Mrs. Hobley enters and, believing Myra has run off to avoid her financial obligation, reveals her true profession to Roy. Although shocked, Roy searches for Myra and eventually finds her on Waterloo Bridge, where he tells her he still loves and wants to marry her. The military police insist Roy join a truck of departing soldiers or be considered a deserter, and once he secures Myra''s promises to marry him upon his return, he departs. The air raid sirens sound, and as Myra seeks shelter, she is killed by a bomb.'
'comedy, drama','A decade earlier, Jonesport, Maine preacher Seth Parker and his wife took in motherless infant Robbie Turner after he was abandoned by his sadistic alcoholic father Rufe; young Robbie has always considered the Parkers his parents. Mary Lucy Duffy, whose father has banished her from their home for fraternizing with farmhand David Clark, is also living with the Parkers, and her romance with David attracts the attention of the local gossips. David''s mother had run off with a stranger years earlier, and when she returned to Jonesport with an illegitimate infant son, they were shunned by the townspeople. Mary Lucy and David plan to elope to Bangor, but Seth encourages them to stay by offering to pay for a proper wedding. Rufe breaks into the Parker home to kidnap Robbie, attacking Mary Lucy when she tries to protect the boy. Seth pursues Rufe and Robbie and manages to intercept them before they board a train. Because Seth is not Robbie''s legal guardian, the boy is placed in an orphanage until a decision can be made about his future. Meanwhile, Seth lectures the townspeople about tolerance and implores them to accept Rose and her newlywed son and his bride. Robbie returns to Jonesport, having been legally entrusted to the Parkers'' care.'
'drama','Jerry Stevens is a Chicago millionaire whose fiancee Anne falls for another man while Jerry''s off to war. Jerry ends up escorting two young ladies, roommates Dot and Maizie, to a party, and when Anne turns up there with her new lover, a jealous Jerry lies and introduces Dot as his new love. Dot goes along with the gag and has been kind to Jerry all evening, so much so that, after having too many drinks, he proposes marriage to Dot and takes her to a justice of the peace. He wakes up having little or no recollection of what occurred. Recognizing that he has a drinking problem, Dot becomes determined to help Jerry regain sobriety. Annoyed that she won''t grant a divorce, Jerry leaves for a ranch he owns in Arizona, only to find Dot there waiting for him. She doesn''t fall for his fib that he is ill and has six months to live. But when he goes to greater lengths to get rid of her, Dot gives up and goes back home, declining his offer of $10,000. Anne is available again, but it gradually dawns on Jerry that the woman he really loves is Dot.'
'comedy drama','Norma Selbee is a chorus girl trying to make it in New York City. Her fortunes are not going well, and she is flat broke and on the verge of starvation when she meets Gordon Kent. Kent has spent the last several years in the back woods, utilizing his mining engineering acumen to accumulate a large fortune of approximately $20 million. He has come to the big city looking for a good time, hopefully among the "white shoulders" of the fair damsels of the Big Apple. Upon meeting Norma, he falls head over heels for her and proposes on their first evening together. Norma is reluctant to agree, for she is not a gold-digger, and she is not in love with Kent. But she has no prospects, and she feels that she may come to love him in time, so she agrees, and the two are immediately married. In a whirlwind of activity, Kent books them on a ship to Europe for their honeymoon which is leaving shortly. On the trans-Atlantic crossing, and upon their arrival on the continent, Kent showers Norma with gifts and fine living. Somehow, she still finds a way to feel unwanted by him. While she wishes that he would spend more time with her, rather than money on her, he also has a business he still has to run. When they travel to Paris, they run into an old acquaintance of Norma''s, Lawrence Marchmont, who instantly understands a meal ticket when he sees one. As Kent is distracted by his business dealings, he begins to woo the lonely Norma. She at first resists his advances, but eventually succumbs to Marchmont''s attentions, and the two run off together. Devastated, Kent hires investigators to look into the background of the pair. It is discovered that Marchmont''s real name is Tommy Pierce, a two-bit con artist who is wanted by the police in several countries. Kent also finds out that Norma''s first husband, who Kent knew about, never legally divorced Norma, so technically she is a bigamist. Deciding to teach the pair a lesson, he pairs the private investigators to follow them and ensure that they cannot part from one another. It soon becomes apparent to Norma that the only thing that Marchmont/Pierce was interested in was her jewels, and she has to resume her chorus girl activities in order to support Marchmont/Pierce''s drinking habit. However, when either of the two attempts to leave, they are returned to each other, under threat of turning them over to the police for arrest. There are only two problems with this plan: Kent is love Norma; and Norma has fallen in love with Kent. Marchmont/Pierce thinks he has figured a way out of the unpleasant situation when Norma''s first husband, Jim Selbee, turns up. The two plan a blackmail scheme to be hatched on Kent, only to have it foiled by Norma. With that plan spoiled, the two con-men turn to plan "B", deciding to abscond with Norma''s jewels. The night of the robbery, as they are breaking into the safe, the pair argue, resulting in Marchmont/Pierce shooting Selbee, and killing him. Marchmont/Pierce is arrested for the murder, and with Selbee out of the way, Norma is free to return to Kent. She is reticent, due to her guilt over her relationship with Marchmont, but Kent convinces her to return, and the pair is reunited.'
'drama','A young man returns from Europe after several years'' estrangement from his family caused by his disapproval of his father''s remarrying after his mother''s death. At the family reunion he learns that his stepmother is the woman with whom he had a shipboard romance on the voyage home.'
'war drama','In 1914 Vienna, Elsa Elsbergen volunteers for nursing, but her lies hiding her sordid past are discovered and she is turned down. However, Captain Muller believes her patriotism and background are perfect for the Austrian Department of Intelligence. His superior, Major Schmidt, wants her to become very friendly with Captain Otto von Lichstein, who is known to be spying for the enemy. Elsa is disappointed at the use that Schmidt wants to make of her, but accepts the assignment. At a party, she catches von Lichstein''s eye and agrees to meet him the next night. On her way home, she is nearly run down by a horse-drawn cab. Its passenger, Sub-Leutnant Count Karl Runyi of the Royal Navy, is very apologetic and insists on seeing her home. They become strongly attracted to each other, and see each other every night. Schmidt reprimands Elsa, but she refuses to give Karl up and turn her attention to von Lichstein. Karl had been frustrated at being assigned to an admiral''s staff, far from the fighting, but when the opportunity he had been hoping for finally becomes available, he chooses not to volunteer for a dangerous assignment - running a blockade with three submarines - because of Elsa. She, however, persuades him to change his mind, telling him that he would come to hate her if he did not seize his chance at glory. She sends him a letter, which he reads after sailing; in it, she lies and tells him that she has found someone else. She then becomes von Lichstein''s girlfriend. He later has her entertain naval officer Heinrich. The drunk young man is soon boasting to von Lichstein about the exploits of the three submarines, and in particular their secret return route under the very noses of the enemy. Von Lichstein decides that this would be a fitting culmination of his espionage career and prepares to deliver the information personally. Elsa secretly telephones Schmidt to come immediately and holds von Lichstein at gunpoint. However, he splashes his drink in her face, and they struggle for the gun. It goes off, seriously wounding Elsa. Schmidt and his men arrive, so von Lichstein commits suicide. Karl returns safely and is lauded as a national hero. Then, despite everything, he goes to see Elsa. She admits that there was no other man, and they become engaged. However, Countess Runyi, Karl''s mother, knows about Elsa''s past. When Elsa refuses to break the engagement, the Countess informs her that she will tell Karl. Katie, Elsa''s loyal maid, then reveals Elsa''s heroism to the Countess. Although moved, the Countess''s mind is set. However, Elsa reveals that, as a result of her wound, she has only six months to live. She marries Karl.'
'comedy','The film opens at the end of World War I, with lifelong rivals Captain Jim Flagg and Sergeant Harry Quirt in the trenches. After the war ends, both men re-enlist, and the film follows their adventures through the Philippines, Asia, and the Panama Canal. After a stint in the brig, Flagg is given command of a recruiting office in Brooklyn, New York, where he works with Olsen, who has a persistent sneezing problem, much to the annoyance of Flagg. Quirt, meanwhile has been discharged. When a local “joint” is raided by the police, Flagg discovers it is being run by Quirt, and he forces Quirt to re-enlist, or be turned over to the police. Flagg has been highly unsuccessful as a recruiter, managing only a single other recruit, Izzy Kaplan, who Flagg promised to look after to his father. They are sent to Sweden, where a love triangle develops between Flagg, Quirt and a dancer they meet in a café, Elsa. Elsa’s boyfriend, Olaf, eventually intervenes, and the three Marines leave Sweden, bound to Nicaragua, to help out in earthquake rescue and relief efforts. During the efforts, Izzy is killed, and Flagg digs out a buried marine, discovering it is Quirt. Their final mission takes them to the Mid-East, where they find Elsa as a favorite in a harem. She had arrived there from Paris, where she had met Prince Hassan, in whose harem she now finds herself. Quirt, Flagg and Olsen rescue Elsa from the Harem, sneaking her out in an enclosed harem chair. As they argue about who will end up with Elsa, they hear Olsen''s sneeze from within the chair, and they understand that Olsen will wind up with Elsa, much to the chagrin of the other two Marines.'
'drama','Two sisters from Indiana, Mae and June Thorpe, move into a house for homeless girls in New York. With June''s help, Mae obtains a job as a stenographer for scientist Joseph von Schraeder, while June gets work as a telegraph operator. June begins dating Pat Kelly, a saxophone player who lavishes her with gifts. Mae begins to date Boyd Wheeler, a successful lawyer. Mae turns down a marriage proposal from von Schraeder, and von Shraeder asks that she then quit her job so he will not be hurt by having her around. Mae compromises her virtue with Boyd by staying alone with him one night in his apartment. She suffers for her choice when he goes out of town for a month and returns engaged to a socialite. Now, June derides Mae for trusting someone from a higher class. As her sister has been out of work for months, June goes to von Schraeder, who kindly offers to rehire Mae. He realizes, however, that he is really in love with June. After her first week back at work, Mae asks von Schraeder to renew his proposal, as she is pregnant. He does so graciously, but on the eve of her engagement party, Boyd returns, his engagement having been broken. June is aware that Boyd is already responsible for one broken engagement and prevents Mae from seeing him again. June changes her mind, realizing her sister has a chance for happiness, and borrows Kelly''s gun. Kelly, Mae, and June go to Boyd''s apartment, where June forces Boyd at gunpoint to agree to marry Mae. He happily complies. Later, June and Kelly run into von Schraeder at a Chinese restaurant, and after sending Kelly away, June tells von Schraeder the news. He is not disappointed, revealing he is in love with her, which she reciprocates.'
'drama','When martial law is declared in Russia, all Jews are restricted to their villages. The authorities are unsympathetic to Marya (Elissa Landi) when she wants to travel to see her dying father. Marya learns that a card, called "the yellow ticket", is issued to prostitutes and allows them to travel freely. Marya gets a yellow ticket. In St. Petersburg, Baron Andrey (Lionel Barrymore), a corrupt police official, prevents his lecherous nephew, Captain Nikolai, from forcing himself on Marya. She meets Julian (Laurence Olivier), a British journalist, and tells him about injustices the government has kept him from learning about, including the yellow ticket. When Julian''s articles are published, Andrey, a womanizer, guesses that Marya has been giving him information.'
'drama','Jim Donovan (Richard Dix) is a two-bit mob leader in New York during the 1920s. When another mobster, Ben Murray (Richard Alexander) is killed in a gunfight between rival gangs, Donovan takes it upon himself to raise his son, Midge Murray (Jackie Cooper). When Donovan seeks the advice of the parish priest on how to raise an adolescent boy, the priest, Father Dan (Frank Sheridan), enlists the services of his niece, Kitty Costello (Marion Shilling). When she directs Donovan to get honest work, he agrees, and she gets him a job at the ironworks where she is also employed. He is slowly transformed by the effect that both Midge and Kitty have on him. He also falls in love with Kitty. Things are going well until the government gets involved, and Midge is taken away from Donovan and sent to a house of correction. Donovan is devastated and loses his mind, declaring war on the authorities. However, Kitty has not given up on him, and gets him to calm down, by working out a deal with the authorities (due to her own personal standing in the community) where Midge will be returned to him if he keeps his nose clean for several months. The romance between Kitty and Donovan further blossoms over the course of the next couple of months, as Donovan looks forward to the return of Midge. However, one day as he is visiting Midge, Kitty is robbed of $5,000 which she was transporting from the ironworks to the bank. The police, suspecting the worst, arrest Donovan. He escapes from police custody and tracks down the actual culprits who perpetrated the robbery, who happen to be his old gang. He recovers the money, but in the process is seriously wounded in a gunfight. Donovan manages to return the stolen funds to the police before collapsing. While in the hospital, he and Kitty declare their love for one another, and he is promised that Midge will join them shortly.'
'drama','Cocky Tommy Connors (Spencer Tracy) is sentenced from 5 to 30 years in Sing Sing for robbery and assault with a deadly weapon. His associate, Joe Finn (Louis Calhern), promises to use his contacts and influence to get him freed long before that, but his attempt to bribe the warden to provide special treatment is met with disdain and failure. Connors makes trouble immediately, but several months confined to his cell changes his attitude somewhat. As the warden had predicted, Connors is only too glad to do some honest work on the rockpile after his enforced inactivity. Nonetheless, his determination to break out is unshaken. Bud Saunders (Lyle Talbot), a highly educated fellow prisoner, recruits him and Hype (Warren Hymer) for a complicated escape attempt. By chance, however, it is scheduled for a Saturday, which Connors superstitiously regards as always unlucky for him. He backs out, forcing Saunders to take another volunteer. The warden is tipped off and, though two guards are killed, the escape is foiled. Trapped, Saunders jumps to his death. His two accomplices are captured and returned to their cells. Meanwhile, Connors'' girlfriend, Fay Wilson (Bette Davis), visits him regularly in prison since his trial. On one visit, she admits she has become friendly and close to Finn in order to encourage him to help Connors, but Connors tells her that she is only giving Finn a reason to keep him locked up in jail. The warden shows Connors a telegram that says that Wilson was injured in a car accident; there is no hope for her. Then, he gives Connors a 24-hour leave to see her; Connors promises to return, no matter what. When he sees Wilson, he learns that Finn was responsible for her injuries. He takes out a gun from a drawer, but Wilson persuades him to give her the pistol. Finn shows up, however, expecting her to sign a statement exonerating him in exchange for $5000 she intended to give to Connors. Connors attacks him. When it seems that Finn is about to kill her boyfriend, Wilson shoots him. Connors flees, taking the gun with him; Wilson secretly slips the money into his pocket. Before he dies, Finn names Connors as his killer. The warden is lambasted in the newspapers for letting Connors go. Just when he is about to sign a letter of resignation, Connors walks in. He is found guilty of first-degree murder and sentenced to death in the electric chair, despite a recovered Wilson''s testimony that she killed Finn. Connors comforts her before being taken to death row.'
'mystery','Buck Buchanan plays football for State, but his criminal brother Slip Buchanan has placed a whopping $350,000 wager on University defeating State in the upcoming big game. Slip attempts to coerce his brother into drugging a star teammate, Wally Clark, so he is unable to play. Buck refuses to do so, but is distracted on the field of play by his suspicions that Slip will find another way to do Wally harm. Sure enough, just as Wally is about to score a State touchdown, he collapses at the 5 yard line. As 70,000 spectators look on, Wally is carried from the field and expires. A doctor rules the death accidental, but a police detective, Dan McKenna, is so convinced of foul play, he has the players reassembled and the entire football play re-enacted, solving the case.'
'comedy','Jack Harrowby (Basil Rathbone) believes he is drawing a diplomat''s wife into an affair. Unbeknownst to him, he is actually seducing the maid.'
'drama','Peter Piper (Charles Farrell) and his girlfriend Sidney Taylor (Marian Nixon) have been engaged for a long time (three years), but the economic situation of the Great Depression and the selfish demands of their respective mothers have delayed their marriage. They imagine their future together "after tomorrow" in the lyrics of their favorite song. While clinging Mrs. Piper (Josephine Hull), a widow completely fixated on her boy, cannot bear the thought that her son will one day leave her, does her best to break up Sidney and Peter''s relationship. Sidney''s mother, Else Taylor (Minna Gombell) thinks only of her own needs, and her lover, Malcolm Jarvis (William Pawley), a lodger in their house, with whom she leaves for good the day before Pete and Sidney''s wedding, causing a second heart attack to Willie, Sidney''s father (William Collier Sr.). The wedding has to be postponed for another half of a year. When finally Else comes back to help her daughter and Pete financially, but Willie does not allow it. Pete finds the courage to face his mother''s boyfriend, Mr. Beardsley (Ferdinand Munier), owner of a chewing gum factory, giving him the same as his mother gives to Sidney, and while arguing if he has serious intentions with his mother, Mr. Beardsley tells him that the hundred dollars he invested in his factory had a revenue of $740 at that point. So finally they can marry and go to Niagara Falls.'
'drama','Mike Harvey (Cromwell) and Betty Cameron (Wilson) are college sweethearts at a New York college. They are so anxious to consummate their relationship that Mike suggests that the two of them quit college, get married and move to California where a friend of his has offered him a job. Both Mike''s mentor, Professor Matthews, and Betty talk him out of it. In a funk, Mike goes to the local diner. Dora (Judge) is an underage waitress who has had a crush on Mike and suggests that he walk her home after her late shift. Arriving at her house, she invites him in. Once in the house she lets him know that her father is working the night shift, offers Mike some of the liquor her father keeps hidden and turn on the music. The drunken couple begin kissing and end up having sex. They wake up the next morning as Dora is asking Mike if he''s sorry for what happened. At that moment Dora''s father (Barlow) comes in. He sees the rumpled condition of the couple, hears Dora''s words and immediately has Mike arrested for corrupting the morals of a minor. Matthews bails Mike out and when they meet with Dora and her father in the District Attorney''s office, Mr Swales presents Mike with two options: marry Dora or have charges brought against him. Despite Professor Matthews attempts to intervene, Dora''s father insists that Mike marry his daughter and Mike finally acquiesces. The plan is made for them to get married that night and leave immediately for California. Mike goes to see Betty who has changed her mind and wants to leave school right away to get married. Mike tells her that he has to marry someone and why, she becomes distraught and suggests they run away and get married right away. He tells her that he has to do the right thing by Dora and leaves. Betty is visibly upset and later Duke Galloway, a classmate of Mike and Betty''s offers to take her for a ride to help cheer her up. Mike arrives at Dora''s house. Her father lets him know that the preacher is on the way. Dora comes downstairs in a white suit for the wedding and so that she can leave with Mike right away. Professor Matthews is standing up for Mike. Before the preacher can arrive, Professor Matthews is summoned to the hospital and he takes Mike with him with Dora and her father following behind. When the arrive at the hospital they find out that Duke has had a bad car accident. Betty is badly injured but Duke dies from his injuries at the hospital. Dora sees Mike and Betty and tells her father that she refuses to marry Mike because she can see how much he and Betty love each other. The last scene shows a now married Mike and Betty on the train to California.'
'drama, adventure','Pilot Mike Miller (Ralph Bellamy) owns and operates Desert Airport, an air mail base at the foot of the Rocky Mountains. He leads a group of young pilots who risk their lives flying through dangerous weather and over treacherous terrain to deliver air mail. When Joe Barnes (Ward Bond) crashes at the base, the other pilots attempt to retrieve the precious mail from the burning wreckage. Mike consoles his girlfriend Ruth (Gloria Stuart), who is also Joe''s sister. Mike now realizes that he has to hire a replacement, the reckless "Duke" Talbot (Pat O''Brien). Duke is a good pilot, but his bravado and affair with Irene (Lilian Bond), wife of fellow pilot "Dizzy" Wilkins (Russell Hopton), has the potential to cause irreparable damage to the tightly knit group of aviators. When Dizzy crashes and dies in a blinding snow storm, Mike is forced to take over the last leg of his flight, even though doctors have told him that his vision has deteriorated. When he also crashes during a blizzard, his distress call reveals that he is still alive, but trapped in an inaccessible mountain valley. Duke considers the rescue as a challenge, commandeering an aircraft and flying to the remote valley. He lands roughly, damaging his aircraft, but manages to fly out with Mike on board. As they reach Desert Airport, Duke knows he cannot land safely so he pushes Mike out before he crash-lands. As the ground crew pull him out of the wreck, Duke is badly injured, but alive.'
'drama','College football hero Gary King''s life changes for the worse when the allure of money results in a business arrangement with untrustworthy Willie Walsh and a romance with heiress Gloria Neuchard, changing all his previous plans. Gary spurns sweetheart Ellen Steffens and puts off a promise to best friend Steve Kelly to launch a construction business together. His lavish spending on Gloria and gambling habit result in Gary falling deeply in debt. In the meantime, Gary''s younger brother Bob has become an All-American football star. Bob is married to Betty Poe and all is well until wealthy Gloria and scheming Willie turn up again. When a football game is scheduled between Bob''s school and a team of older All-Stars, an opportunity arises for Gary to play against his brother and teach him not to make the same mistakes he did.'
'thriller','A Russian woman with a forged passport attempts to elude the police and seeks the assistance of a man she met one summer in Scotland. She married an official at the British Embassy in Moscow, and settles down with him in England. However she reveals that she is already married, and her husband is criminally insane.'
'drama','In the Great Depression era, the Board of Directors of Thomas Dickson''s bank want Dickson (Walter Huston) to merge with New York Trust and resign. He refuses. One night, Dickson''s bank is robbed of $100,000. The suspect is Matt Brown (Pat O''Brien), an ex-convict whom Dickson hired and appointed Chief Teller. Brown, who''s very loyal to Dickson, refuses to say where he was that night. He has two witnesses for his alibi, Mrs. Dickson (Kay Johnson) and fellow worker Cyril Cluett (Gavin Gordon), but Brown is protecting Dickson from finding out that Mrs. Dickson was with Cluett having a romantic evening. Cluett, who has a $50,000 gambling debt, is responsible for the robbery, but lets Brown take the rap. Word of the robbery causes a run on the bank, but friends of the banker come to his aid, and the bank is saved.'
'drama','Tom Collier (Leslie Howard) is a book publisher who has been living in the city with his best friend and lover Daisy Sage (Ann Harding) without being married. His wealthy father, Rufus Collier (Henry Stephenson), wants him to live a respectable life. While Daisy is away for her job, Tom falls in love with Cecelia (Myrna Loy). Although their lawyer and friend Owen (Neil Hamilton) is in love with Cecelia, he doesn’t have enough financial resources to maintain her interest. Cecelia tries to get Tom to sell out without his realizing it. She talks him into publishing bad books that will make money and getting rid of his old friends, including “Red”, his prize-fighter friend and butler. She wants Tom to sell his publishing company, live in the city with his father as a "proper gentleman" and take their place in society, which Tom has been fighting all his life. Daisy tries to stay away, but she and Tom’s Bohemian friends can’t believe he’s happy. She loves him deeply and wants to have children with him, but cares most about his well-being. Tom complains that he''s losing his soul and integrity. Finally, when Cecelia offers Tom champagne to toast selling his publishing company and moving in with his father, Tom realizes that Cecelia''s bedroom suite reminds him of a brothel he used to visit, as he says, "in vino veritas". When Red tells Tom he is going back to the city, that he can’t stomach being at that house any longer, Tom insists driving Red to the station, saying, “I''m going back to my wife,” referring to Daisy. As he leaves, he signs over to Cecelia a large birthday check from his father, and puts it on the mantle, just as he used to leave money for the girls in the bordello.'
'drama','A radio writer is tricked into confessing — on the air — that he murdered his wife.'
'drama','Budapest bar entertainer Zara (Greta Garbo) is a discontented alcoholic who is pursued by many men but lives with novelist Carl Salter (Erich von Stroheim). A strange man called Tony (Owen Moore) shows up on Salter''s estate claiming that Zara is actually Maria, the wife of his close friend Bruno. Maria, Tony claims, had her memory destroyed during a World War I invasion 10 years ago. Zara doesn''t remember but leaves with Tony to Salter''s dismay. Bruno, now an officer in the Italian Army, tries to coax Maria''s memory back on his large estate. No one is really sure if Zara is Maria, and when Salter shows up with a mental case from Trieste that he claims is the real Maria, everyone on Bruno''s estate is desperately searching for the truth. The narrative structure of As You Desire Me was used by Marcelle Maurette for her play Anastasia, which was translated into English by Guy Bolton, then later fashioned into the 1956 film Anastasia, penned by Bolton and Arthur Laurents. The dual plot of amnesia victim who may or may not be someone and the income to be gained by proving the identity were the key plot devices.'
'action','A conniving young man is brought up on charges of reckless driving. To "prove" his innocence and good character, he goes to a nursing home and adopts an old woman whom he presents as his loving mother. Unfortunately for him, she really gets into her role and when he falls in love with a seductive, shady lady, the old lady does all she can to protect him from her; this includes getting him tossed in jail and shooting the young trollop. Afterward, the old lady must stand trial.[1]'
'drama','In early 1900s Cincinnati, young and beautiful Ray Schmidt (Irene Dunne) works in her father''s shop by day and stays out late drinking beer and dancing with various men by night, although her stepmother disapproves. Ray dates for fun, mostly going out with traveling salesmen passing through town, and neither she nor her dates are interested in any permanent attachment. An exception is Kurt Shendler, who owns a bicycle shop near Mr. Schmidt''s shop and aspires to get into the automobile business. Kurt is in love with Ray and asks her to marry him, but she refuses because while she likes Kurt, she doesn''t return his romantic feelings. While visiting the train station with Kurt, Ray meets Walter Saxel (John Boles) and the two fall for each other at first sight. Walter soon confesses to Ray that he is actually engaged to another woman in town, Corinne, who comes from a wealthy background and whose mother is friends with his own mother. Nevertheless he has fallen in love with Ray, and asks her to meet him at a local band concert that he will be attending with his mother. Walter hopes to introduce Ray to his mother and perhaps get her approval of the relationship. On the day of the concert, Ray is late arriving because her younger half-sister Freda is suicidal over her boyfriend, Hugo, leaving town. Freda begs Ray to go after Hugo and stop him, threatening to throw herself out a window if Ray does not help. By the time Ray has dealt with Freda''s situation and gotten to the concert, it is over, and Ray cannot find Walter or his mother in the departing crowds. Walter, thinking she stood him up, writes her an angry letter and marries Corinne. Several years later, Walter, now a rising young financier on Wall Street, runs into Ray who is single and working in New York City. The two renew their acquaintance and realize they still love each other, although Walter is still married and has two children. Walter sets Ray up in an inexpensive apartment and gets her to give up her job so she will be free to see him when he has time. However, his work, family and social commitments sometimes keep him away for long periods of time, causing Ray to feel lonely and isolated. After Walter takes an extended trip to Europe with his wife, leaving Ray alone with insufficient money to live on, she breaks up with him and accepts a proposal from Kurt, who has become a rich automobile manufacturer. Walter goes to Cincinnati to convince her not to marry Kurt and they resume their previous relationship. Years pass, and Walter has become a wealthy and prominent financier. When he travels he now brings Ray along, although they must keep their relationship hidden and avoid being seen in public together, meaning Ray spends much of her time alone. Ray is the target of gossip and is hated by Walter''s adult children, who regard Ray as a gold digger. Walter''s son Dick tells Ray to get out of his family''s life, but his father Walter walks in on the conversation and tells his son to be more understanding or at least to mind his own business. That night, Walter suffers a massive stroke and dies shortly thereafter. Just before Walter dies, he asks Dick to telephone Ray''s number and hears her voice over the phone one last time. Dick, who now understands his father''s feelings for Ray, goes to see her and offers to continue to support her. He finds her distraught over Walter''s death and also learns that his father had been paying her only a very small amount per month, thus proving that she stayed in the relationship for love, not money. After Dick leaves, Ray dies looking at Walter''s picture.'
'drama, crime','Police Captain Jim Fitzpatrick (Walter Huston) is a dedicated family man and crime fighter not averse to using violence to fight violence. Although he''s been demoted for political reasons, public outcry forces the mayor to take more aggressive action against sleazy gang boss Sam Belmonte (Jean Hersholt), and Fitzpatrick is promoted to police chief. His younger brother, Police Detective Ed Fitzpatrick (Wallace Ford), allows himself to be seduced by a languorously sexy Belmonte gang moll (Jean Harlow) and needs money to continue the relationship. Frustrated when his principled brother will not promote him, he betrays Jim''s trust by conspiring with Belmonte''s henchmen in a truck hijacking that results in the deaths of a child and another police officer. After a crooked lawyer is able to get those guilty off on all charges, the relentlessly determined Chief turns to vigilantism to rid the city of its "Beasts."'
'drama, horror','A federal agent (Holt) goes undercover to infiltrate a drug smuggling operation headed by a mysterious Mr. X (Van Sloan), a criminal mastermind whose identity is unknown even to his henchmen. Mr. X is also running a bogus hospital where victims are killed on the operating table, and their coffins stuffed with narcotics. The drug-filled coffins are then buried in a cemetery.'
'comedy, musical','Radio-singer Bing Crosby is not very serious about his career. His chronic tardiness and his affair with the notorious Mona Lowe (Sharon Lynn) has become an issue at station WADX. After Mona cheats on him, the despondent singer meets Texas oil man Leslie McWhinney (Stuart Erwin), who has also been wronged by a woman. Soon after, Anita Rogers (Leila Hyams), the former fiancée of McWhinney, falls in love with Crosby. Meanwhile, station manager George Burns is plagued by the addled conversation of his stenographer, Gracie Allen and eventually loses the radio station. McWhinney buys the station in order to help out Crosby and Anita, whom he still loves. McWhinney comes up with the idea of putting on a "big broadcast" of stars to pull the station out of debt. Mona returns on the scene and threatens the budding romance between Crosby and Anita, as well as the station''s upcoming big broadcast. McWhinney tries to find a phonograph record to replace the absent Crosby, and ends up impersonating Crosby on the air. The singer returns and takes the microphone in mid-song. Crosby, who actually has been feigning irresponsibility to bring McWhinney and Anita together, succeeds both in reuniting the former lovers and in taming Mona.'
'drama','Bud Reeves is an innocent young man who once lived in a small town. After inheriting money, he moves to New York City where he meets his cousin Gibby. He introduces him to chorus girl Vida Fleet, who he falls in love with. Troubles start to come when they decide to throw a party where a woman is killed after accidentally being hit on her head. Bud and Vita try to escape from the police and after arresting everybody, the real killer is soon revealed. Bud immediately goes back to his home in Indiana, but wants to go back to New York to marry Vida.'
'sports','Cooky Bradford wants to make enough money to buy a lunch wagon. He ends up falling for, and fighting for, boxing manager Pop Baldwin''s daughter, Honey.'
'drama','A Bill of Divorcement describes a day in the lives of a middle-aged Englishwoman named Margaret "Meg" Fairfield (Burke); her daughter Sydney (Hepburn); Sydney''s fiancé Kit Humphreys (Manners); Meg''s fiancé Gray Meredith (Cavanagh); and Meg''s husband Hilary (Barrymore), who escapes after spending almost twenty years in a mental hospital. After the family discusses Hilary''s genetic predisposition toward psychiatric problems, which Sydney seems to have inherited, Hilary and Sydney give up Meg and Kit in order to avoid passing this trait to future generations. The film begins on Christmas Eve as Meg gives a party in her comfortable English manor. In addition to dancing and listening to Christmas carols, Sydney and Kit happily discuss their future together, as do Meg and Gray. The only unpleasant moment of the evening occurs when the singers dedicate their performance of God Bless the Master of This House to Gray. Hilary''s sister Hester objects to this because she considers Hilary to be the master of the house even though he is psychotic and institutionalized. On Christmas morning, while Meg and Gray are at church, the asylum telephones to say that Hilary has gone missing, and Hester unintentionally reveals to Sydney that insanity runs in their family. The family''s official explanation of Hilary''s troubles has been that he experienced shell shock while fighting in World War I, but another family member had similar problems in the past. Hester and Sydney discuss Hilary''s talent as a composer, and Sydney sits down at the piano to play an unfinished sonata that Hilary wrote before going to war. A few minutes later, Hilary returns home, having escaped from the asylum. He meets Sydney and they chat comfortably, except for a heated argument that serves to further display their similarities as sensitive, free-spirited individuals. When Meg returns from church, she reacts to Hilary''s presence with shock. She has not loved him for years, is frightened by him, and has been counting on her upcoming marriage to Gray, who helped her obtain a divorce on account of Hilary''s insanity. However, Hilary is caught up in his own sudden recovery and assumes that she will welcome him back. He fails to understand and accept that her life with him ended long ago until his doctor arrives from the asylum and explains the situation to him, saying, "Face it, man! One of you must suffer. Which is it to be? A healthy woman with her life before her, or a man whose children ought never to have been born?" The doctor says this in Sydney''s presence. This prompts Sydney to begin contemplating her own plans with Kit. After the doctor tells Sydney that any children she has would be at risk of inheriting Hilary''s problems, she breaks her engagement to Kit and sends him away. Meanwhile, Hilary vacillates between accepting Meg''s love for Gray and pleading with her to change her mind. Meg gives in to his pressure, but he spies her talking with Gray and sees how much she loves Gray and how miserable she feels. Finally, Hilary regains his will to do what is best, and he has Sydney send Meg and Gray away. When Sydney returns to Hilary, she tearfully embraces him and they agree that they will live together. The film ends as they sit together at the piano, cheerfully experimenting with new endings to his sonata.'
'romantic','As a yacht sails into an island chain in the South Pacific, a large number of natives in pontoon boats sail out to greet them. The natives dive for the trinkets the yacht''s crew throws them. A shark arrives, scaring most of the natives away. Attempting to catch a shark by throwing it bait that has been tied to a harpoon-sized hook, Johnny Baker (Joel McCrea) accidentally steps into a loop that tightens around his ankle. The shark takes the bait, and the rope grows tighter, causing the rope to yank the young man overboard. Luana (Dolores del Río), the daughter of the chief, saves his life by leaping into the water and cutting the rope. It is not long before they meet in the middle of the night. Swiftly falling in love, they discover she has been promised by her father to another man – a prince on a neighboring island. An arranged wedding with an elaborate dance sequence then follows. Johnny appears at the nick of time, runs into a circle of burning fire, rescues her as the natives kneel to the fire. They travel to another island where they hope to live out the rest of their lives. He builds her a house with a roof of thatched grass. However, their idyll is smashed when the local volcano on her home island begins to erupt. She confesses to her lover that she alone can appease the mountain. Her people take her back. When Johnny goes after her, he is wounded in the shoulder by a spear and tied up. The people decide to sacrifice both of them to the volcano, but on the way, the couple are rescued by Johnny''s friends and taken aboard the yacht. Johnny''s wound is tended to, but his friends wonder what will become of the lovers. Luana does not fit into Johnny''s world. When Johnny is sleeping, Luana''s father demands her back. She goes willingly, believing that only she can save her people by voluntarily throwing herself into the volcano''s mouth.'
'comedy','Alvin Roberts (Lee Tracy) feuds with Bunny Harmon (Dick Powell), a singer. Roberts reports on society people who are expecting, i.e. going to have a child. One such report antagonizes a gangster in a delicate situation, who sends over a henchman to threaten him. Roberts manages to turn the tables on the gangster.'
'drama','The movie begins with seven American students traveling in Germany. They stop at a pond and spot six girls (who all work for a theater) bathing. The unclothed girls discover the male students and attempt to conceal themselves. One of the girls, Helen (Dietrich), asks them to go away, to which one of the young men, Ned (Marshall), responds by adamantly refusing to leave. The movie shifts to years later, showing a mother bathing a boy, telling him to hurry since his father would be coming home soon. The mother and the boy turn out to be Ned''s wife and son years after their first meeting at the pond. The scene cuts to a doctor''s office, where we see a man offering to sell his body to science for money. The man is Ned, now an American chemist poisoned with radium and expecting to die within the year. The doctor tells him that there is a famous German physician who has had success treating radiation poisoning and recommends Ned to travel to Germany. It would cost him approximately $1500 and he would have to be there for six months. The scene reverts to Helen and Ned putting their son, Johnny to bed after his bath. Johnny asks his parents to tell him the "Germany story", an ongoing bedtime tradition telling how Ned and Helen met. Ned recites this bedtime story by recalling his travel in Germany as a student and his encounter of "six beautiful princesses at a pond," one of whom told Ned that she will grant him a wish if he leaves. Ned wished to see her again, and that very night, Ned went to the local theater, finding the "princess" on the stage. Johnny asks his mother what the princess thought of Ned, to which she simply responds that she wanted to see him again. After the show, Ned asked "the princess" for a walk, and while under a tree, embraced her. Johnny insists on hearing, "and then what happened?" after their first kiss, to which Ned replies with a Cheshire grin, "and then..we started to think of you.." With Johnny asleep, Ned and Helen discuss the possibility of having Ned travel to Germany for the treatment. It is very evident that Ned loves Helen and wishes not to leave her, and at the same time, Helen exhibits her undying love for Ned by insisting that she return to theater work to help finance his trip. Although Ned is against this, Helen finds work at a night club and befriends a fellow cabaret girl "Taxi" who is of obvious lower class than Helen. She tells Helen about Nick Townsend (Cary Grant) a famous millionaire politician who is a regular at the club and who gave her expensive jewelry for "favors." Helen attracts great attention in her first performance "Hot VooDoo" (in which she is required to don an ape suit and remove the costume head dramatically). Nick Townsend, who is in the audience, is interested in Helen, and after the show, goes back stage to meet her. He found out about her family troubles and gives Helen a check for $300 as down-payment for her husband''s medical treatment. Eventually Helen accumulates enough money to fund Ned''s treatment. She lies to Ned about how she got the money, saying that the producer "paid her in advance." Out of apparent guilt for lying to him, she then asks if Ned "loves her," to which he replies, "Do I love you? Oh you silly little thing." He then embraces her. The next day, Johnny and Helen see Ned off to Germany at the ship docks. Nick shows up to give Helen a ride home when the ship sails, much to her surprise and irritation. Nick then said he had a "friend with an apartment" in which she and Johnny can stay all summer, thereby sparing her from working again. Nick takes the liberty to call Helen''s business manager to informs him that Helen can quit immediately because she has no contract with him. Helen begins to live at Nick''s "friend''s apartment" and eventually develops feelings for Nick. When she discovers that her husband is returning from Germany she realizes how much she is indeed attracted to Nick and finally admits that she loves him. However, she informs Nick that she must go back to Ned, with the reason being that he isn''t "as strong" as Nick and therefore he needs her more than Nick does. Before Ned is to return to the States, Helen goes on a two-week vacation with Nick, with both believing that it would be their final private time together. Meanwhile, Ned returns two weeks early, finding his home empty with neighbors informing him that they haven''t seen Helen nor Johnny for two weeks. Ned ultimately finds out that his wife has quit her job and been keeping company with Nick. Helen returns home from her vacation with Nick and bids him farewell. (Nick informs Helen he would travel to Europe to "forget about you.") Upon returning home, Helen is dismayed to discover Ned is already there, and that she had failed to see a telegram warning of his early arrival because she was with Nick. Helen implies her act of infidelity to Ned saying that she has been "untrue" to him, had lied about the money and said it was the only way to get him his treatment. Ned is very angry and tells her he is going to pay her money back and states that he wishes he had never met her. He banishes Helen from the house and threatens to take her to court for custody of Johnny. He demands that she bring Johnny into the room so they could reveal the plans of their separation to him. Helen agrees, but grabs Johnny and escapes. They both end up living on the run. Ned reports his wife''s and son''s disappearance to the police, and they begin to track her. Helen and Johnny end up renting an apartment where she befriends a Black housekeeper (Hattie McDaniel, uncredited) who senses "some man outside" is a detective. The detective starts a conversation with Helen telling her about his problematic chase, (ironically, for her) and even has a beer with her. Helen takes him to her room and eventually Johnny pops into the room, revealing his and his mother''s identities to the detective. Helen voluntarily turns herself in. They take the train back to Ned and home. Helen realizes that life on the lam is not conducive to raising a child correctly and agrees to return Johnny to Ned. Ned asks her to never see him or Johnny again. After a dramatic emotional breakdown, Helen throws herself into a work-a-holic mode: singing in cabarets, making a successful career which eventually catapulted her to Paris. In a fateful performance, she runs into Nick, who continues to profess his feelings for Helen. Nick knows that Helen loves Johnny and that she wishes to be with her son again. Nick offers to take her back to the U.S., and the two return engaged to be married. Helen comes home and sees her son, Johnny, who is unaware of his mother''s engagement to Nick. Johnny asks his mother to tell him the "Germany story" again in front of Ned, since Ned had refused to tell it (because he "had forgotten it"). Johnny then proceeds to tell the story himself, encouraging his parents to join in the dialogue. Through this forced dialogue with Johnny telling the story, Ned and Helen become aware how their separation affects Johnny, who wishes to remain in a world in which his parents are together. Helen then sings to Johnny the song that she sang before he sleeps every night (the lyric of this song is a poem by Heinrich Heine). During the song, the audience sees a close-up of the music-playing carousel, a ceramic music box merry-go-round that we see at the beginning of the film with the first bed-time story. This is a symbol of their up and down, round and round life and is an important prop in creating a poignant moment wherein Helen and Ned realize that their home is where they both ultimately belong.'
'western','A young and honest New York Police Department detective "Breezy" Kildare is attempting to arrest B.H. "Butch" Owens, the leader of a gang of criminals who attempted to bribe him. He is wounded in a shootout between Owens'' gang and another gang in a Broadway night club. His police chief allows him to recuperate and cool down in his thirst for justice back in his home of Wyoming where his father is a cattleman. Once arriving back home he soon discovers the gangsters who attempted to bribe and kill him are lying low there and diversifying by starting a Cattleman''s Benevolent Association that is actually a protection racket protecting the cattlemen from such perils as having their cattle machine gunned. When his father is shot in a drive-by shooting, Breezy leads the cattlemen against the well-armed gangsters who no longer have the power of a bribed administration or high-powered legal protection, but now have to face six-gun justice and lynch law.'
'drama','Haunted by the memory of Walter Holderlin, a soldier he killed during World War I, French musician Paul Renard (Phillips Holmes) confesses to a priest (Frank Sheridan), who grants him absolution. Using the address on a letter he found on the dead man''s body, Paul then travels to Germany to find his family. As anti-French sentiment continues to permeate Germany, Dr. Holderlin (Lionel Barrymore) initially refuses to welcome Paul into his home, but changes his mind when his son''s fiancée Elsa identifies him as the man who has been leaving flowers on Walter''s grave. Rather than reveal the real connection between them, Paul tells the Holderlin family he was a friend of their son, who attended the same musical conservatory he did. Although the hostile townspeople and local gossips disapprove, the Holderlins befriend Paul, who finds himself falling in love with Elsa (Nancy Carroll). When she shows Paul her former fiancé''s bedroom, he becomes distraught and tells her the truth. She convinces him not to confess to Walter''s parents, who have embraced him as their second son, and Paul agrees to forego easing his conscience and stays with his adopted family. Dr. Holderlin presents Walter''s violin to Paul, who plays it while Elsa accompanies him on the piano.'
'drama, western','In a small Mexican town, Captain Innocencio (Leo Carrillo) pursues the beautiful Lolita (Lupe Vélez). Innocencio rules the town with an iron hand. Although he calls Lolita his "big love," her fortune teller assures her that another "king of hearts" awaits her, and will come in a storm. When pilot Philip "Phil" Marvin (Melvyn Douglas), during a storm, is forced to land in Lolita''s garden, she is sure he is her true love. Suffering from amnesia, Philip falls in love with her. Seeing the initials on his underwear, Lolita calls him "BVD." when he sees him kissing Lolita, in a jealous rage, Innocencio arrests the pilot and even threatens to kill him. Lolita''s American guardian, Luther Farley (George Barbier), an old friend of Innocencio, threatens to call in government troops. Moments before the pilot''s execution, an American engineer, Sylvester Cross (Willard Robertson), recognizes the pilot as Philip Marvin, a prominent resident of Los Angeles. Although it breaks Lolita''s heart, to save Philip''s life, Cross tells him he is married and produces his own wife claiming she is his wife. Philip, who for days, has been listening to the song of a whippoorwill suddenly recalls the opening bars of "Over There" and his time as a fighter pilot in the war. With his memory back, he assures Lolita he is not married. Enraged, Innocencio draws his revolver on Philip but government troops arrive to arrest him. Lolita and Philip leave in an aircraft, but Innocencio escapes from prison, shouting that danger is more fun than love.'
'comedy','Earl Tinker (Will Rogers) goes on a Mediterranean cruise and finds that a business rival has a femme fatale in pursuit.'
'comedy','Max Clement and his father Florian, short of money, take advantage of wealthy British women by romancing them. Max''s problem is that he is far more attracted to more attractive women, ones without the means to support him. While seeing a pleasant but plain Lady Joan Culver socially, Max is introduced to Austrian widow Rosine Brown, quickly falling in love with her. Max is persistent in his romantic advances, but Rosine reveals that she is penniless and, much like Max, counting on a richer but less exciting man, Sir George Kelvin, to marry and take care of her. Florian''s gambling losses in the casino leave him heavily in debt. The only way Max knows how to aid his father is by marrying Lady Joan, who can afford to solve his financial difficulties. Max''s guilty conscience and true love lead him back to Rosine, and the sudden engagement of Florian to a wealthy woman helps bring everyone together.'
'drama','Marvin Blake is a sharecropper''s son who wants to better himself by continued schooling instead of working in the fields under the heat in the Deep South. Initially, greedy planter Lane Norwood is opposed to the idea and says he needs to work in his fields, but after the sudden death of his over-worked father, he grudgingly helps Blake achieve his goal and gives the young man a job as a bookkeeper when his vampish daughter Madge intercedes on his behalf. Blake uncovers irregularities in Norwood''s accounts and soon finds himself embroiled in a battle between management and workers and torn between the seductive Madge and his longtime sweetheart Betty Wright.'
'drama','A wild young woman, Nasa Springer (Clara Bow), born and raised in Texas by well-to-do parents, rebels against her father. She is sent to school in Chicago, where her disruptive behavior marks her as a troublemaker. She marries a rich playboy, who then declares the marriage a ploy and abandons her. She is renounced by her father, who tells her he never wishes to see her again. She discovers she is pregnant and bears a child. Reduced to poverty, she moves into a boardinghouse with her infant, and struggles to pay for the baby''s basic needs. Unaware that her grandfather in Texas has died and left her a $100,000 fortune, a desperate Nasa dresses up as a prostitute and goes out in the neighborhood hoping to earn some quick cash to purchase medicine for her child. While she is out, a drunken lout at the boardinghouse drops a match and accidentally sets the building on fire. Nasa''s infant is killed in the blaze. Upon learning that her mother is dying, she hurries home to Texas. There she learns that she is a so-called "half-breed", half white and half Indian. The assertion is made that this explains why she had always been "untameable and wild." This knowledge of her lineage would supposedly allow her the possibility for happiness in the arms of a handsome young Indian, named Moonglow (Gilbert Roland), a longtime friend who has secretly loved her.'
'mystery','For three years, Frank Chandler has studied eastern magic with the Yogis in India and is now known by his new identity, Chandu. He now has the power to teleport, astral project, mesmerize, as well as project illusions. With these supernatural abilities he has been entrusted by his teacher to "go forth with his youth and strength to conquer the evil that threatens mankind." Chandu is sent to Egypt to deal with an Egyptian megalomaniac known as Roxor, played by Bela Lugosi. Roxor kidnaps Chandu''s brother-in-law, Robert Regent, an inventor who has developed a death ray whose beams reach half way round the world. The evil Roxor plots to use the ray to aid his plans for world domination. Chandu must utilise all his psychic abilities to rescue his brother-in-law, and also his sister and their children, whom Roxor has kidnapped in a plot to force Regent into revealing the secrets of his death ray. Chandu''s sweetheart Egyptian Princess Nadji is also kidnapped, leaving Chandu with the quandary whom to rescue first. Using his Yogi abilities, Chandu makes daring escapes, including one from a submerged sarcophagus. Eventually he succeeds in rescuing everyone and mesmerizing Roxor long enough to destroy both the death ray and the villain''s entire lair.[citation needed][3]'
'drama, mystery','Charlie Chan is attending a police convention in New York City; he is an intended murder victim here, but avoids death by chance. To find his would-be-killer(s), Charlie must outguess police reps from both Scotland Yard and New York City Police.'
'comedy','Parisian cabaret performer Lilli de Rousseau (Billie Dove), performing as Jean d''Arc on stage, is asked to leave the country by several diplomats as she is a distraction to high-ranking officers. She is set up with a villa in Italy, and Captain Tonnino (Luis Alberni) as her guardian. Lilli is also smitten by Lieutenant Roger Craig (Chester Morris) who has a reputation as a "Don Juan". She keeps her identity a secret from Roger, and begins to woo him, but remains elusive. When her understudy in Paris begins getting accolades, Lilli presses Roger to take her there for a drink at the Ritz, although she has been forbidden to return. Roger risks arrest and his military career to fly her and his mechanic, Terry (Matt Moore), to Paris. After a night on the town, Roger is afraid he will be picked up by the MPs, as he is absent without leave. Terry is arrested for disorderly conduct and impersonating an officer, but is released and learns that the MPS will also drop charges against Roger. Lilli performs again as Jean d''Arc and tells Roger to join her at the theater. After she receives an ovation, she admits she promised to return to Italy in exchange for keeping Roger out of jail, and accepts Roger''s marriage proposal.'
'western','Jim Madden, a Texas Ranger, is gunned down while investigating the murder of a local rancher. His younger brother, Larry, vows to track down the suspected killer, another rancher named Joan Stanton. While looking into the murders, he stumbles on a battle between Stanton, and a group of men working for another rancher, Frank Sanderson. Rescuing Stanton from the altercation, he keeps his identity as a Ranger secret, while attempting to learn the truth of what is going on. Through talks with Stanton, Madden learns that Sanderson has been setting her up for both the murder of the other rancher, and Jim''s death. Convinced by Stanton''s story, Madden tells Stanton she must turn herself in, and she agrees. Before they can reach the Rangers, they are captured by Sanderson''s men. Sanderson plans to kill Madden, and take Stanton to Mexico. With the help of Rangers'' cook, Rusty, as well as several of Stanton''s men, Madden overcomes Sanderson and his men, and takes a vindicated Stanton back to the Rangers.'
'drama','The film begins in a prospering New York in 1873. Lowly bank clerk Roger Standish is fired from his job after he is caught courting Caroline Ogden, the daughter of the bank’s president. The failure of Ogden’s bank in the Panic of 1873 brings about her father’s collapse and death. Undismayed, Caroline offers to marry Roger and proposes that they travel west in search of new opportunities. While traveling through Nebraska on a raft Roger is shot during the course of a robbery by a gang. Taken to the nearby town of Fort Allen, he is operated on successfully by the town''s doctor, Dan L. Blake, who though a drunkard proves competent. As Roger recovers, Caroline is inspired by the town’s generosity to them to open a bank there. With the help of Blake and his wife, Standish Bank is an instant success, and Caroline soon gives birth to twins, a boy and a girl. As Fort Allen prospers, the possibility of being bypassed by the railroad threatens its growth. Roger and Caroline succeed in convincing the railroad''s president to include Fort Allen on the route, by the arrival of the first train is marred by the death of their son after an inebriated Doc Blake crashes the carriage in which they were riding at a crossing right in the train’s path. Though they mourn their loss, Roger and Caroline’s daughter grows into a beautiful young woman, who marries Warren Lennox, one of the employees in Standish''s bank. The prosperous times come to an end with the depression of the 1890s. Overextended because of poor judgement by Roger’s son-in-law, the Standish National Bank is forced to close because of a run on its deposits. Lennox commits suicide just as Roger’s grandchild, Roger Standish Lennox, is born. The young boy grows up in a world of technological marvels, and after America’s entry into World War I becomes a decorated fighter pilot. While watching him in a victory parade after the Armistice, however, Caroline dies. The decade that follows is one of great growth. The Standish National Bank, having survived the hard times of the 1890s, is thriving once again under Lennox’s management. When the stock market crash of 1929 brings the good times to an end, however, Lennox approaches the now-elderly Standish to sign papers dissolving his multimillion-dollar trust fund so that Lennox can put the money into the bank. As Standish signs the papers, Lennox expresses his optimism that the country would recover and reach new heights, filling his grandfather with pride at both Lennox’s responsibility and his faith in America’s future.'
'western','Dan Alton (Hoot Gibson) is a con artist, posing as a lawyer in order to sell copies of a phony law book. When Bill Clary (Jack Rutherford) robs a stagecoach, and plants some of the stolen money at the ranch of Luke Avery (Fred Gilman), Avery''s sister beautiful sister Ruth (Sheila Bromley) ropes an instantly smitten Alton into being Avery''s defense attorney. As part of his strategy to defend Avery, Alton plans to pull off another stagecoach robbery.'
'drama','Linda Gault comes from a poverty-stricken family and is determined never to be poor again. She is now a philandering elitist who casually seduces men for their money. Her stockbroker husband Geoffrey has found out about his wife''s infidelities, and encouraging her to collect investment recommendations from her latest lover, high profile financier John Fair. Linda is unamused with her husband''s desire, claiming that finances have killed their loving marriage. Nevertheless, she does as her husband asks, and afterwards feels ashamed about it. Having tired of Fair, she breaks off their affair. Unaware of this, Geoffrey insists she get the latest inside information from Fair, as the stock market is behaving very strangely. Suspicious of Linda''s rapid about face, Fair refuses to tell her anything. Not wanting to admit that she was unable to charm her ex-lover, Linda lies to her husband, telling him the market will rise. As a result, Geoffry loses all of his money in the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Unwilling to deal with being impoverished, Linda persuades her husband to pay for her extended stay in Bermuda, using some of the money he needs to try to recover. There, she is romanced by Ronnie Sanderson, an Australian sheep rancher. Ronnie proposes that Linda live with him in Australia, but she hesitates to, feeling Australia has nothing to offer her. However, when she learns about her husband having become broke, she is eager to profit from Ronnie in every way possible. Ronnie finds out about Linda''s financial motivation and loses interest in her. Linda is able to manipulate Ronnie into falling for her and he expresses his interest in marrying her if she first returns to New York City to divorce her husband. Once in New York and announcing the divorce, Geoffrey reacts in laughter, telling her she will never marry a sheep rancher. Meanwhile, Linda''s maid Celeste steals Linda''s jewelry to save her boyfriend Arthur from jail. Linda now realizes she is completely broke and lands a job as a clothing store''s clerk. She is surprised by a visit from Ronnie, who insists on taking her to Australia immediately. Geoffrey, who is not willing to let go his wife, warns Ronnie about Linda''s spoiled character, but Ronnie does not feel threatened. On the evening Linda is leaving, Geoffrey confronts Fair with losing all of his money because of Fair''s supposed statement to Linda. They initially quarrel, but in the end, Geoffrey receives some of the money he lost as a loan. Back home, he receives a visit from Linda, who has come to say goodbye. They realize the faults they have made in the past and are reconciled. Linda tears up Fair''s check.'
'musical','Teddy Taylor is the leader of Ted Taylor''s Collegians. One night, his usual singer can''t sing. He decides to try out singing. However, his voice can''t be heard over the band. A dancer stops and jokes with him by handing him a megaphone. Taylor sings through it, and he is heard. The ladies are enamored with his soft voice while the men are disgusted. Taylor becomes a big star over night, but his ego becomes inflated. Things come to a head when Taylor loses his temper and punches a heckler in the audience, who he didn''t realize was a cripple. Shunned, he loses his girlfriend, his band, his fame, and his dignity. In the final scene, as a drunk and unhappy Peter Sturgis, who promoted Teddy Taylor into a singing star and gave up his fiancee Judy Mason to him, continues to drink heavily in a speakeasy, an announcer on the speakeasy''s radio proclaims, "…And now, it is our great privilege to bring to you the new sensation of the air, Bang Busby, who will croon for you in his inimitable manner, ''Sweethearts Forever''". As the song, which had already been sung a number of times by Teddy Taylor, begins to be heard, Sturgis grabs a bottle and hurls it at the radio, breaking it.'
'sports','Motor racing champion Joe Greer (James Cagney) returns home to compete in an exhibition race featuring his younger brother Eddie, who has aspirations of becoming a champion. Joe''s misogynistic obsession with "protecting" Eddie (Eric Linden) from "women" causes Joe to interfere with Eddie''s relationship with Anne (Joan Blondell), leading to estrangement between Joe and Eddie, and between Joe and his longtime girlfriend Lee (Ann Dvorak), who is made to feel "not good enough" to be around Eddie. During the race, a third driver, Spud Connors (Frank McHugh), wrecks and is burned alive. Driving lap after lap through the flames and the smell of burning flesh (and maybe past the burning body) while blaming himself for the accident, Joe loses his will to race. Eddie goes on to win. Afterward, Joe''s career plummets as Eddie''s rises. The power of love eventually triumphs and Joe''s career and his relationships with Lee and Eddie are rehabilitated.'
'drama','A pushy newspaper reporter Eddie Crane (Ned Sparks) schemes to get rid of crusading District Attorney Phillip Brandon (H. B. Warner). Complicating matters is the sordid past of Brandon''s wife Tess (Evelyn Brent) as well as his sister Marcia''s affair with a gangster.'
'drama','In Naples, disgraced London barrister James "Jim" Warlock (Ronald Colman) prepares to part from his beloved wife Clemency (Kay Francis) and start anew in South Africa. When she asks him to explain the events leading to his downfall, a flashback ensues. Hardworking, successful and deeply in love, Jim is looking forward to his seventh wedding anniversary. He is crestfallen when Clemency informs him that she has to take her sister Garla to Venice for a month to get her away from a parachute jumper, the latest in a string of unsuitable men with whom she has fallen in love. While the women are away, John Tring (Henry Stephenson) takes his friend out to dine. At the restaurant, young shopgirl Doris Lea (Phyllis Barry) in the next booth puts on Jim''s bowler hat on a dare by her friend and flatmate Milly Miles. Tring is enchanted and persuades the reluctant Jim to join the girls. Doris takes a great liking to Jim, and gives him her address. Afterward, however, he tears up the slip of paper. Tring has other ideas. He arranges for Jim to judge a swimsuit contest and informs Doris, who becomes a contestant. Jim names her the winner. When she slips and injures her ankle, he picks her up and takes her back to her flat. There, though he warns her that he is married and that nothing good can come of their relationship, she tells him that she will not cause trouble when he wishes to end it. They embark on an idyllic affair. When Clemency, Garla and Garla''s new Italian fiancé finally return, however, Doris finds it impossible to give up the man she loves. Finally, Jim writes her a letter telling her he cannot see her anymore. She responds by committing suicide. The letter is found, and Jim is forced to testify at an inquest. When the coroner (Halliwell Hobbes) asks if she had any prior relationships, Jim refuses to answer, even though she told him of an earlier one, to protect her privacy. Though Jim is guilty of no criminal offence, the scandal destroys his promising career. The flashback ends. After Jim leaves to board his ocean liner, Tring comes to talk to Clemency. While he accepts a share of the blame for what happened, he reminds Clemency that she may never see her husband again. She rushes to the ship to accompany Jim.'
'drama','The story takes place at a downtown dance hall in which Duke Taylor is the band leader, Gloria Bishop the singer, Floyd Stevens the saxophonist and Louie Brooks a local gangster and regular patron. Gloria has a "past" with both Duke and Louie but as the film opens is falling for Floyd. Floyd is steady and true but might not be if he knew more about her romantic history. Duke thinks Gloria is not good enough for Floyd who he treats as a brother. Louie is interested in having her back but not as much as he wants to rob premises upstairs from the dance hall. Floyd proposes to Gloria; she accepts but is worried about her past and puts him off. Duke manoeuvres him out of town for a few months and sets about luring Gloria back to him to expose her shallow nature. The ploy fails because he starts to fall in love with her as well. In the meantime the robbery takes place (off screen) and Louie kills someone but isn''t caught. Floyd comes back and after a rapid sequence of misunderstandings and the arrival of the police looking for Louie everything works out nicely.'
'western','Tim Madigan (Tim McCoy), a cowboy coming to the aid of Gerry Norris (Alberta Vaughn), whose father (Murdock MacQuarrie) is in trouble with a gang of cattle rustlers. The leaders of the rustlers, Hugo Distang (Robert Ellis) and Bull Bagley (Richard Alexander), prove to be the very same villains Madigan was trailing.[2]'
'mystery','During the filming of a death scene of The Death Kiss, leading man Myles Brent is really shot and killed. Tonart Studios manager Joseph Steiner (Lugosi) is assigned to handle the situation. The studio wants to pass it off as a simple accident, but screenwriter Franklyn Drew (Manners) digs a bullet out of a wall and tells Homicide Detective Lieutenant Sheehan that it is a .38 caliber, while the guns used in the film are all .45s. Sheehan finds a letter in the dead man''s pocket, in which Brent wrote to his lawyer that Marcia Lane (Ames), his co-star and ex-wife, would not sign a release as beneficiary of his $200,000 life insurance policy. Chalmers, an alcoholic extra with a self-admitted grudge against Brent for getting him fired as head gaffer (electrician), is spotted trying to dispose of a loaded .38, but Drew points out that the gun has not been fired. Drew suggests they view the footage of the fatal scene for clues, but somebody knocks out the projectionist and burns the print using a cigarette with rouge on it. It is a special rouge normally used by only two women. One was away on location, making Lane the prime suspect. Before another print can be made, the negative is destroyed with acid. While snooping around on the set, Drew finds a derringer mounted inside a lamp and electrically wired to be fired remotely, but he is knocked out and the gun taken. He goes to question Chalmers, but finds him dead beside a glass of poison and a written confession. However, Drew finds several clues that make him suspicious. Through more detective work, he discovers that the new battery of Lane''s car is dry, and battery fluid is poisonous. Meanwhile, Goldsmith comes to see Lane; she rejects his advances once again. In Brent''s dressing room, Drew finds a letter from a love-stricken married woman named "Agnes" and a hotel room key. Later, in Steiner''s office, Sheehan takes Lane into custody; Drew spots a photo of a woman on the desk; the inscription reveals that Steiner''s wife is named Agnes. When Drew goes to the hotel, he finds out from a bellhop that Brent had been there with a woman; her husband was waiting, and the two men got into a fight. The studio decides to finish the film (only the last, fatal scene needs to be shot), using a double for Brent and arranging for Lane''s temporary release. Drew finds out from the prop man that the guns were originally supposed to be .38s, but he made an unauthorized substitution. Drew takes him to Sheehan. Just as he is about to reveal who ordered the guns, the lights go out. (The murderer had overheard the conversation through a studio microphone.) After a gunfight and chase, the killer falls to his death. It is Avery, the director.'
'comedy','Fields plays a hot-tempered dentist who terrorizes his patients, who verbally/physically abuses his assistants and golfing-caddies alike, and whose daughter desires to marry an ice-delivery man. Fields disapproves of this match, especially after the starry-eyed daughter attempts to elope with her lover. Fields locks his daughter in her upstairs bedroom which is located above his dental office, where she proceeds to stamp her feet, causing plaster chunks to fall as he attempts to treat his patients. Various patients with unusual physical traits (a tall "horse"-faced woman, a tiny, heavily-bearded man [Fields is obliged to use a stethoscope to locate the man''s mouth]) arrive at the office, and he attempts to use his dental drill on them without any apparent pain killer. With one of his patients (Elise Cavanna), he engages in an intimate wrestling match as he attempts to extract a painful tooth. Eventually the ice-delivery man procures a tall ladder and aids the dentist''s daughter to escape from her dormitory window. Fields observes the lovers just as they are prepared to run off, and --- under pressure from the sizable crowd that has gathered at the foot of the ladder --- grudgingly withdraws his opposition to the match. The film ends with Fields --- who had previously threatened to purchase an electric refrigerator instead of ordering ice each day --- contemptuously ordering his now-future-son-in-law to "deliver ten pounds of ice, and be quick about it", prompting the daughter to joyfully embrace her fiance.'
'drama','Charles Sturm (Laughton) is a naval commander whose jealousy and abuse makes life miserable for his wife Diana (Bankhead). His suspicions fall on his own subordinate, Lieutenant Jaeckel (Grant). Although his suspicions are baseless, Sturm has Jaeckel transferred. After Charles falls into another fit of paranoid rage and strikes Diana, she wanders off into the streets during a festival and soon encounters another officer, who turns out to be Jaeckel''s replacement, Lieutenant Sempter (Cooper). Learning of their affair, which this time is real not imagined, Charles plots a terrible revenge. On the night Commander Sturm''s submarine is to sail, Diana goes aboard to warn Sempter of Sturm''s dangerous frame of mind. But when Sturm arrives, he immediately orders the sub out to sea before Diana can return to shore. In the busy channel outside the harbor, Sturm deliberately maneuvers into the path of an oncoming ship, which rams and sinks the sub. Several compartments are flooded, but the crews are able to get out in time. Trapped on the bottom, the survivors gather in the control room; Sempter and Sturm square off, asserting command, while Diana exposes Sturm''s madness. Sempter takes control and organizes the crew''s escape. In a detailed and substantially accurate technical sequence, Diana and the crew exit through the sub''s escape trunk using Momsen lungs, and are rescued at the surface. Refusing to leave the ship, Sturm stays behind and lapses into raving insanity; he opens a watertight door to let in the sea, laughing maniacally as the water rises.[1] Afterwards, cleared of most charges by a court martial, Sempter encounters Diana again in a shop on the street. Soon it begins to rain, and they depart in a cab together.'
'drama','Orville "Gabby" Denton is an alcoholic drifter with a chronic gambling problem. Despite his flaws he is beloved by his family. Gabby''s brother-in-law Beef gets Gabby work as a mechanic at the Metropolitan Garage. The shop is a front to a stolen car ring. His brother-in-law Beef, who is otherwise honest, is aware of this. One day, Gabby is sent to pick up Silver, Jenkins''s girl friend, whose car has broken down. Both Gabby and Silver start a relationship, after which Silver leaves Jenkins. During a getaway one of car thieves hits Gabby''s nephew Buddy, who is in the street driving a toy car. The driver makes it to the garage, and Buddy receives treatment at a hospital. A witness points out the car to Gabby, and he understands it''s the car that drove into the garage to be repainted. He investigates and discovers a piece of Buddy''s little car in the wheel of the stolen car. When he confronts Beef, Beef gets drunk and confronts Jenkins and the head of the stolen car ring. They kill Beef, making his death look accidental. Photographer Bill Jones gives Gabby a photograph of Beef in the car before the accident, which shows Beef was already dead. Silver and Gabby confront Jenkins. The criminals drive away, but die in a car crash. With the hoodlums out of the way, Gabby marries Silver.'
'drama','In England a group of sweepstakes winners are invited to a weekend party at a lavish country estate. Murder, heartbreak, and betrayal soon follow.'
'mystery','Discarded Lovers is a murder mystery. Early in the film a blonde bombshell movie star is murdered and her body is found in a car. She had just finished doing the last and final scenes in a film. Irma Gladden was a sexy blonde bombshell who was having many tangled romantic affairs. She was loose and easy. In solving the murder there are the usual friends, police, reporters and employees who administer their help to the police captain and the police sergeant. In this whodunit suspects abound and include Irma’s husband, a jealous wife, a boy friend and an ex-husband.'
'comedy','The movie stars Spencer Tracy as a policeman who becomes involved with a young woman (Sally Eilers) after clashing with her politician father (Ralph Morgan).'
'drama, horror','Reporter Lee Taylor (Lee Tracy) is investigating a series of pathological murders that have taken place over a series of months in New York City. The murders always take place at night, under the light of a full moon (the newspapers dubbing them the "Moon Killer Murders"). Furthermore, each body has been cannibalized after the murder has taken place. Witnesses to the events describe a horribly disfigured "monster" as the killer. Doctor Xavier (Lionel Atwill) is called in for his medical opinion, but it is learned through meeting with the police that the ulterior motive behind this is to begin an investigation of Xavier''s medical academy, as the scalpel used to cannibalize the bodies of the victims was exclusive to that institution. Aside from Xavier, the other suspects are: Wells (Preston Foster), an amputee who has made a study of cannibalism; Haines (John Wray), who displays a sexual perversion with voyeurism; Duke (Harry Beresford), a grouchy loudmouth cripple; and Rowitz (Arthur Edmund Carewe), who is conducting studies of the psychological effects of the moon (Rowitz also displays a notable scar on one side of his face). It is learned that Haines and Rowitz were stranded in a boat with another man, and that while they claimed he had died and they had thrown him overboard, it was suspected that they had, in fact, cannibalized him. The police give Xavier 48 hours to apprehend the killer in his own way. During this time, Taylor investigates the doctor''s intentions and in the process, meets Joan Xavier (Fay Wray), the doctor''s daughter. Joan is exceedingly cold to Taylor, particularly after finding out that it was his story that pointed a finger at her father and ruined his first attempt at locating the killer. Taylor, however, manages to find a romantic interest in Joan before being escorted out. He is then walking out of the house as the maid dumps ice water on him. The setting switches to Xavier''s beach-side estate on Long Island. There, all of the suspects are brought in for an unorthodox examination of their guilt: each member (excluding Wells, because it is known that the killer has two hands and he has but one) is connected to an electrical system that records their heart rate. When a re-enactment of the murder of a cleaning woman appears before them, the detector will expose the guilty man who will have no choice but to confess. Dr. Xavier''s butler and maid, Otto (George Rosener) and Mamie (Leila Bennett), carry out the reenactment. Things go awry, however, when a number of events inhibit the experiment. First, Taylor breaks into the home and hides in a storage closet, but is rendered unconscious by gas that the killer puts in the room. During the experiment, a blackout occurs. Wells, in another room controlling the equipment, appears to fall through a glass door. When power is regained, it is discovered that Rowitz, whose monitor supposedly revealed him as the guilty party just before the blackout, has been murdered, a victim of a scalpel to the base of the brain. Taylor is discovered by the staff and Xavier has no choice but to keep him there until the investigation is over, lest he report back to his paper. Joan decides to be friendly to Taylor, as she sees that he is the only one with enough intuition to solve the crime. Later that night, it is discovered that during these hours, Rowitz''s body has been cannibalized. The following evening, the police allow Xavier an extension till midnight to apprehend the killer. Xavier again asks Otto and Mamie to re-enact another of the murders. Mamie is too frightened and ill to play her part, so Joan takes Mamie''s place. All of the men, save for Wells, are this time handcuffed to their seats. It is during this that we find out that it is, in fact, Wells who is the killer. As his "guests" are all handcuffed and helpless, he is free to explain. Through a "synthetic flesh" composition that he himself has created, Wells has been creating artificial limbs and a horrific mask to carry out his crimes in order to collect living samples of human flesh for his experiments. It turns out at first for years he had been searching for a secret manufactured flesh and eventually finds it; so, he went to Africa one time, not to study cannibalism, but to get samples of the human flesh the natives eat. To collect his final victim, Wells sneaks up on Otto and strangles him. Then, he proceeds to reveal himself and his intentions for collecting Joan as his specimen in front of everyone. Just as Wells is about to strangle Joan, Taylor — posing as one of a series of wax figures representing the killer''s victims — jumps Wells and the two men get into a scuffle. As Wells lunges towards Taylor, Taylor grabs a kerosene lamp and hurls it at Wells. Set on fire, Wells stumbles and crashes out a window and falls down a cliff into the ocean. Reporting his story into the paper, Taylor tells his editor to make space in the marriage section for Joan and himself.'
'drama','The film opens with Baron Von Burgen''s head butler Albert marrying the young maid, Anna, on the Baron''s Austrian estate. During the ceremony, newly hired chauffeur Karl Schneider arrives, and soon finds an old acquaintance - a former lover - Countess De Marnac, who appears displeased with Karl mixing with her elite friends. That night, when François, one of the butlers, gets too drunk to work, Albert is summoned to take over his shift. Anna, now unaccompanied, is visited by Karl, who wins over her sympathy by telling her about his unfortunate childhood. One day, Karl drives the baroness Eloise to Vienna for shopping purposes. She has him drop her off at her town apartment which she keeps for her visits from her boyfriend. When they return home, Eloise claims that they were in an accident, but Albert does not believe her. He asks Karl about it, and brushes off Karl''s attempt to tell the truth but instead reminding him to remain loyal to their employers. He reminds him of his social position, and warns him to never interfere with the upper-class people. Even though Karl agrees with Albert''s advice, he jumps his chances to seduce Anna, who he soon concludes is very naive and easy manipulable. He tries to kiss her, but she slaps him and warns him never to try again. As Albert returns to the room, Karl decides to leave to avoid a remorseful situation, and goes to his room to find the cook Sophie, waiting for him. After a brief flirtation, she spends the night. The next day, Karl insults Sophie and lies about being the illegitimate son of royalty in order to extort money from her. He next uses a jewel he has found from Eloise the day before in the car to gain respect from Anna, though she is disgusted by what he has done to Sophie and rejects it. He pins the jewel on her crucifix necklace anyway, and Eloise soon recognizes it as her own. When she accuses Anna of stealing, Karl comes to the rescue, claiming the jewel to be his own, winning back Anna''s sympathy. Eloise recognizes this as blackmail because Karl knows she has a lover she meets at the apartment. Eloise later discusses the matter with the Baron, and Albert overhears her saying that Karl and Anna are involved in an affair. Eloise, who is excited about the scandal, arranges for them to have some privacy together on a fishing trip, but at the last minute the Baron demands that Albert come along. Albert then confronts Karl, warning him to stay away from Anna. Karl and Anna stay behind, and he again jumps his chances by taking her to a pub. They grow close, until she finds out that he has arranged a room for the two to stay in. Disgusted at his intentions, she leaves. Karl follows her to her room, and claims that he only lied to and deceived her because he is very much in love with her. Vulnerable to his words, Anna becomes worried when he announces that he will leave the mansion. Karl notices this and kisses her passionately as a goodbye. They end up spending the night together. As soon as Albert returns from the trip, he fires Karl for a plausible reason and then unleashes his frustration on Anna by criticizing her appearance. Anna, in tears, blames him for having driven her to seek affection with another man. Karl, meanwhile, blackmails the baroness into reinstalling him as a chauffeur. Albert feels humiliated and tells Eloise that he will resign. Eloise tries to stop him and, in tears, admits to being blackmailed. Albert advises her to go to the police, but she tells him she can''t, because her affair with him cannot go public. Albert, who sympathizes with her, agrees to stay, and plans to destroy Karl. That night, Sophie, unhappy, offers Karl all her savings in order to realize her dream of running away with him and opening their own shop. The next morning, Karl, with Sophie''s savings, packs his bags to leave, and begs Anna to join him. Anna refuses, telling him that she is still in love with Albert. They quarrel and are interrupted by Albert, who starts a fight with Karl in the cellar. They end up knocking over some old wine bottles, attracting attention from the Baron. The Baron thinks they are fighting over the wine and orders them to apologize to each other. As soon as the Baron leaves, Albert tells Karl to get out of their lives, and they get into another fight when Karl refuses. Anna, afraid that one might kill the other, informs the Baron about Karl''s many deceptions. The Baron orders Karl to leave, and congratulates Albert for his courage and loyalty. Karl leaves the scene, planning to scheme his way into another upper-class woman''s life.'
'comedy, drama','Inventor Frederick Smith''s wife dies during the birth of their fourth baby, Ronnie, leaving the family in the care of their faithful housekeeper Emma. Twenty years later, after Smith''s inventions have made the family rich, the affable Ronnie, who is Emma''s favorite, arrives home from college, announcing that he wants to quit school and become a pilot. The other Smith children, Bill, Gypsy and Isabelle, have all grown into spoiled adults, but Emma lovingly indulges them all, making excuses for their bad behavior to their father and everyone else. As Emma leaves for her first vacation in thirty-two years with the family, the absent-minded Frederick sadly takes her to the station. She gets cold feet and decides to stay home, but Frederick won''t let her and decides to go along with her to Niagara Falls. Waiting for their train, Frederick proposes and Emma accepts, even though she is afraid that people will talk. When the children learn about the marriage, Ronnie is happy for them, but the other children are embarrassed by the blot on their social record. On their honeymoon, as the happy Frederick and Emma row on the lake, they are teased by some young vacationers, prompting Frederick to take the oars from Emma. The exertion causes a mild heart attack and they return home. As the contented Frederick listens to Emma sing to him, he dies, and a short time later, the family learns that he has left his entire estate to Emma. Though Emma wants to give the money back to the children, all of them except Ronnie turn on her and threaten to prove that their father was crazy when he wrote the will. Emma throws them out and awaits the lawsuit they threaten while the loyal Ronnie goes to Canada for a flying assignment. Because the will cannot be broken, the children go to the district attorney to have him bring murder charges against Emma, using distorted testimony by Mathilda, the maid. When Ronnie hears about the trial, he desperately flies East to help Emma but is killed while flying through a dangerous storm. Even though her life is in peril, she won''t allow her kind attorney, Haskins, to defame the character or motives of the children. Her emotional plea for them in court results in her acquittal, but Emma''s relief is ruined when she learns of Ronnie''s death. A short time later, Emma gives all of the money to the children, telling Haskins that she hopes that now they will think better of her. After she sadly views Ronnie''s body, Isabell, Bill and Gypsy beg her forgiveness and want her to stay with them, but she refuses, saying that her work with them is finished, but no matter what happens or where they all are, they will still belong to each other. At a new position, Emma happily attends a doctor''s large family and is pleased when the wife agrees to name her new baby Ronnie at Emma''s request.'
'comedy','Impoverished Count von Dopenthal (Marshall) plans to commit suicide and spends his last night at a costume ball. There he meets lovely Lela Fischer (Maritza) and falls in love with her. A chance meeting with his former butler, brings a job offer as a gigolo.'
'drama','Spoiled socialite Carol Morgan (Bankhead), romping through the Depression with her lavish lifestyle, breaks off her engagement with Bill Wade (Montgomery) over her refusal to live by his comparatively modest salary rather than her own wealth. To make matters worse, she expresses scorn for his career. An unplanned sexual encounter seems to resolve their differences until Carol refuses Bill''s offer for an expedited City Hall wedding, and again they are unable to come to terms. The impasse ends with Bill leaving town. When Carol loses everything, she tentatively reconciles with Bill only to find that he has lost his job on the same day. This breaks the engagement again, much to the disgust of Bill''s younger brother Tony, who condemns her as a "courtesan" and predicts that she will wind up "in the streets". The forgiving and tolerant Bill responds that she is a good person who just doesn''t know it yet. Carol finds herself living off wealthy social climbers and borrowing money from them, until the prestige formerly associated with her name is dissipated. She then becomes the mistress of a man whose wife had tried to evict her as a disgraced house guest, thus fulfilling part of Tony''s cynical prediction. Bill traces Carol to the house and finds her in this humiliating position before being asked to leave. Carol then leaves voluntarily, telling her former patron that if she can''t win Bill''s forgiveness, she can at least seek her own. Carol starves and narrowly avoids homelessness as she looks unsuccessfully for work, and is near collapse when Bill finds her again and asks her once more to marry him, telling her that the past is done and the slate is clean between them. Bill is now a truck driver, but the company that employs him folds, leaving him jobless again. The newlyweds struggle through more hard times until Bill is offered a driving job as a strikebreaker. He is threatened by strikers when he shows up for work, and his truck is ambushed and wrecked by them as he attempts to begin work on his first day. With Bill severely injured, Carol is forced into prostitution in order to pay medical bills and nurse him back to health. She accidentally solicits Tony as he arrives in town, much to his disgust and Carol''s humiliation. A policeman arrests her but takes pity on her and helps her into a job as a waitress by strong-arming the owner of a small diner. Bill is just on his feet again when his brother Tony arrives for a visit, with news that his prediction for Carol had been fulfilled, which he delivers with great contempt before learning to his shock that Carol has indeed become his sister-in-law. Carol arrives in the aftermath of this revelation, and tells Bill that she had intended to confess and then leave as soon as he was well again, adding that she would do it all again. After a moment of sadness, Bill embraces Carol and thanks her for saving his life, wiping the slate clean again.'
'drama, war','On the Italian front during World War I, Frederic Henry (Gary Cooper), an American serving as an ambulance driver in the Italian Army, delivers some wounded soldiers to a hospital. There he meets his friend, Italian Major Rinaldi (Adolphe Menjou), a doctor. They go out carousing, but are interrupted by a bombing raid. Frederic and English Red Cross nurse Catherine Barkley (Helen Hayes) take shelter in the same place. The somewhat drunk Frederic makes a poor first impression. Rinaldi persuades Frederic to go on a double romantic date with him and two nurses, Catherine and her friend Helen Ferguson (Mary Philips). However, Rinaldi becomes annoyed when Frederic prefers Catherine, the woman the major had chosen for himself. Away by themselves, Frederic learns that she was engaged to a soldier who was killed in battle. In the darkness, he romantically seduces her, over her half-hearted resistance, and is surprised to discover she is a virgin. Their romantic relationship (forbidden by army regulation) is discovered. At Rinaldi''s suggestion, Catherine is transferred to Milan. When Frederick is wounded by artillery, he finds himself in the hospital where Catherine now works. They continue their affair until he is sent back to the war. Now pregnant, Catherine runs away to Switzerland, but her many letters to her beloved sweetheart/lover are intercepted by Rinaldi, who feels he needs to rescue his friend from the romantic entanglement. Meanwhile, Frederic''s letters to her are sent to the hospital which she has abandoned. After a time, Frederic cannot stand being away from Catherine any longer. He deserts his post and heads out in search of her. Returning first to the hospital in Milan, he attempts to convince the reluctant Ferguson to reveal Catherine''s whereabouts to him. Displaying animosity toward Frederic, all she reveals finally is that Catherine has left and is pregnant with Frederic''s child. Rinaldi visits him at the hotel where he is hiding, and, upon hearing of Catherine''s pregnancy, out of remorse for having interfered with their correspondence, tells Frederic where she is living. He rows across a lake to her. Meanwhile, Catherine is delighted when she is told she has finally received some mail, but faints when she is given all of her romantic love letters, marked "Return to Sender". She is taken to the hospital, where her child is delivered stillborn. She herself is in grave danger. Frederic arrives, and just as an armistice between Italy and Austria-Hungary is announced, Catherine tragically dies, with him at her side.'
'comedy','Two people leave the US Navy after having served ten years as a sailor. Sandy is one of them and later invents a carburetor that should increase the speed that powered boats will run. When testing it, he accidentally sinks a boat and has to pay for it. Now he is broke and enters a boat contest. To win, he has to invent the fastest boat in the world.'
'animation','During spring the flowers, mushrooms, and trees do their calisthenics. Some trees play a tune, using vines for harp strings and a chorus of robins. A fight breaks out between a grouchy-looking hollow tree and a younger, healthier tree for the attentions of a female tree. The young tree emerges victorious, but the hollow tree retaliates by starting a fire. The plants and animals try to extinguish or evade the blaze. By poking holes in clouds and making it rain, the birds manage to put out the fire, although the hollow tree perishes in the flames. The young tree then proposes to the female tree, with a caterpillar serving as a ring, and they embrace as a rainbow forms behind them.'
'drama','Librarian Lulu Smith shows up late to work for the first time in eight years—the victim of Spring fever. Frustrated by her loneliness, she withdraws her life savings and buys a ticket for a romantic cruise to Havana—the "land of romance". On the ship, she meets Bob Grover, a lawyer with political ambitions, who mistook her room 66 for his room 99 after a few too many drinks. They have dinner together, and soon they develop a romantic attraction. In Havana, they spend their time together gambling and having fun. When he asks why she came to Havana, she answers, "To meet you". After they return, Lulu takes a job as a clerical assistant for the Daily Record newspaper, where she is pursued by brash reporter Al Holland. But Lulu is "sappy" over Bob. A few months into their affair, Bob comes to Lulu''s apartment for dinner, bringing two Halloween masks with which they have fun. She is eager to reveal that she is pregnant with their child. Their merriment is interrupted by a phone call from Al, whose proposal to Lulu prompts Bob to confess that he is married to an invalid wife whom he cannot abandon. Lulu wants to continue their affair, but Bob refuses to let her waste her life on him. Upset at his confession, Lulu throws him out of her apartment without telling him that she is pregnant. A few months later, Lulu gives birth to a baby girl. Two years later, Bob has become district attorney and Al is now city editor of the newspaper. After Bob hires a detective to find Lulu, he comes to her apartment, where Lulu introduces him to his daughter Roberta. Soon after, while Lulu and Roberta are waiting to meet Bob, Al suddenly appears and questions her about Roberta. When Bob arrives, Lulu tells Al that the baby is Bob''s adopted daughter in order to protect Bob''s reputation. She also tells Al that she is the baby''s governess. Bob adopts Roberta, taking her home the next day to present to his wife, Helen, who just returned from a health cure in Vienna. Helen is delighted with the child but questions Lulu''s ability to care for the baby. Lulu runs out, and when Bob catches up with her, she tries to break up their relationship for good—but she cannot leave him. Turning to Al for a job, Lulu becomes the "advice to the lovelorn" columnist for his newspaper. Al tries to get information about Bob and Roberta in order to undermine Bob''s political career, but Lulu refuses to say anything. Years pass, and Lulu follows Bob''s career as he becomes mayor, congressman, and eventually senator. She also follows her daughter becoming a beautiful debutante. Lulu is still working at the newspaper for Al, who has become managing editor. He still pursues her, but she remains in love with Bob. On the night Bob is nominated for governor, he comes to Lulu''s apartment, disheartened and ashamed of the hypocrisy of his secret life. When he threatens to confess the truth to the public, Lulu talks him out of tearing down his career. The next day, Lulu asks Al to marry her in an effort to prevent Bob from destroying his political life. On the night of Bob''s election, Al reveals to Lulu that he knows all about her, Bob, and Roberta. When she tries to retrieve a personal letter that he intercepted, Al hits her across the face. Faced with the threat of Bob''s destruction, Lulu shoots Al dead to prevent him from publishing the story. One year later, Lulu receives a pardon from Bob after serving a short jail term. She visits Bob who is on his deathbed, and he shows her his new will, which reveals everything about their relationship and leaves her half of his estate. After he dies, however, Lulu tears up the will in order to protect Bob and their daughter Roberta, who is engaged to be married.'
'drama, horror','The film opens with a sideshow barker drawing customers to visit the sideshow. A woman looks into a box to view a hidden occupant and screams. The barker explains that the horror in the box was once a beautiful and talented trapeze artist. The central story is of this conniving trapeze artist Cleopatra, who seduces and marries sideshow midget Hans after learning of his large inheritance. Cleopatra conspires with circus strongman Hercules to kill dwarf performer Hans and inherit his wealth. At their wedding reception, Cleopatra begins poisoning Hans'' wine. Oblivious, the other "freaks" announce that they accept Cleopatra in spite of her being a "normal" outsider: they hold an initiation ceremony in which they pass a massive goblet of wine around the table while chanting, "We accept her, we accept her. One of us, one of us. Gooba-gobble, gooba-gobble". The ceremony frightens the drunken Cleopatra, who accidentally reveals that she has been having an affair with Hercules. She mocks the freaks, tosses the wine in their faces and drives them away. The humiliated Hans realizes that he has been played for a fool and rejects Cleopatra''s attempts to apologize, but then he falls ill from the poison. While bedridden, Hans pretends to apologize to Cleopatra and also pretends to take the poisoned medicine that she is giving him, but he secretly plots with the other freaks to strike back at Cleopatra and Hercules. In the film''s climax, the freaks attack the evil pair during a storm, wielding guns, knives, and other sharp-edged weapons. After trying to kill seal trainer Venus and her clown boyfriend Phroso for knowing about the plot, Hercules is chased by the freaks in a storm and not seen again (the film''s original ending had the freaks castrating him: the audience see him later singing in falsetto). As for Cleopatra, she has become a grotesque, squawking "human duck". The flesh of her hands has been melted and deformed to look like duck feet, her legs have been cut off and what is left of her torso has been permanently tarred and feathered. She is the opening scene''s cause for alarm. In a final scene MGM inserted later for a happier ending, Hans is living a millionaire''s life in a mansion. Venus and Phroso visit, bringing Frieda, to whom Hans had been engaged before meeting Cleopatra. Hans refuses to see them, but they force their way past his servant. Frieda assures Hans that she knows he tried to stop the others from exacting revenge. Phroso and Venus leave as Frieda comforts Hans when he starts to cry. Interspersed between segments of the main narrative is a variety of "slice of life" segments detailing the romance between Venus and Phroso, as well as the lives of the sideshow performers, including:'
'drama','In 1906 San Francisco, Frisco Jenny Sandoval (Ruth Chatterton), a denizen of the notorious Tenderloin district, wants to marry piano player Dan McAllister (James Murray), but her saloonkeeper father Jim (Robert Emmett O''Connor) is adamantly opposed to it. An earthquake kills both men and devastates the city. In the aftermath, Jenny gives birth to a son, whom she names Dan. With financial help from crooked lawyer Steve Dutton (Louis Calhern), who himself came from the Tenderloin, she sets herself up in the vice trade, providing women on demand. Jenny has one loyal friend, the Chinese woman Amah (Helen Jerome Eddy), who helps take care of the baby. At a party in Steve''s honor, he catches gambler Ed Harris (an uncredited J. Carrol Naish) cheating him in a back room. In the ensuing struggle, Steve kills him, with Jenny the only eyewitness. The pair are unable to dispose of the body before it is found and are questioned by the police. However, neither is charged. The scandal forces Jenny to temporarily give up her baby to a very respectable couple who owe Steve a favor to keep the child from being taken away from her. After three years, she tries to take her son back, but the boy clings to the only mother he can remember, so she leaves him where he is. He grows up and goes to Stanford University, where he becomes a football star, graduates with honors, and becomes first a lawyer, then an assistant district attorney. Jenny lovingly follows his progress. Meanwhile, she takes over the vice and bootlegging in the city. When Dan runs for district attorney, his opponent is Tom Ford (an uncredited Edwin Maxwell), who does Jenny''s bidding. Against her best interests, she frames Ford so that Dan can win. When Steve tries to bribe Dan to free some of his men, he is arrested. Out on bail, Steve asks Jenny to blackmail Dan into dropping the charges, but she refuses to jeopardize her son''s future. In fact, she intends to retire to France with Amah. When Steve threatens to reveal that Jenny is Dan''s real mother, she shoots and kills him at Dan''s office. She is quickly arrested and prosecuted by Dan. Refusing to defend herself, she is condemned to death by hanging. Amah pleads with her to tell Dan the truth in the hope that he can help her, but when he comes to see her, she remains silent.'
'musical comedy','A French-Canadian girl is a champion bronc rider and is also a nightclub singer. An ambitious young man sees her act one night and is struck by her talent, realizing that she is good enough to become a Broadway star. He convinces her to accompany him to New York, where she indeed does become a Broadway star. However, the young man finds himself being squeezed out by greedy Broadway producers who see the talented young girl as their own personal gold mine.'
'romance','South of the U.S. border, Don José Tostado, a Mexican cabellero, falls in love with Dolores Romero, a dance-hall girl. Owning one of the larger ranches in the area, Tostado is not used to people telling him no. When Romero resists his advances, using a fictional boyfriend as her excuse, this only increases his interest in her, and his attempts to win her favor. As part of that attempt, he plans to throw a gala in her honor. Meanwhile, Romero falls for Johnny Powell, a dealer at a nearby casino. She confides in him that she has no interest in Romero, but doesn''t know how to get him to leave her alone. Powell offers to take her away and get married. They make their plans, but before they can carry them out, Tostado learns of them and hatches a plot of his own: he frames Powell for a murder and has him arrested. When Dolores hears that Tostado has paid the jailer to kill Johnny during an escape attempt, she makes a deal with Tostado to give herself to him in exchange for Johnny''s life and freedom. Tostado agrees. When Johnny is freed, Dolores makes it clear that she is no longer interested in him, and that she intends to marry Tostado. Dolores leaves with Tostado, heading for his ranch. On the way, she attempts to commit suicide, but is stopped by Tostado, who is startled to discover that she would rather be dead than be stuck with him for the rest of her life. When they arrive back at his hacienda, they are surprised by Johnny, who fights Tostado. When they police arrive, they arrest Johnny, and are ready to execute him summarily, on Tostado''s orders. Dolores intercedes on Johnny''s behalf, and her pleas have their desired effect. Realizing that he''s beaten, Tostado calls off the police, and lets Dolores leave with Johnny.'
'western','Kramer (Atchley) works the gold fields by buying up miners'' claims and then having his henchmen murder them, taking both the money and the gold. When cowboy-turned-prospector Jack Tarrant''s (Hoxie) partner Jeff Sellers becomes the next victim to Kramer''s scam, Tarrant decides to put an end to Kramer''s gang once and for all.'
'drama','Doctor Otternschlag, a disfigured veteran of World War I and a permanent resident of the Grand Hotel in Berlin, observes, "People coming, going. Nothing ever happens" — after which a great deal transpires. Baron Felix von Geigern, who squandered his fortune and supports himself as a card player and occasional jewel thief, befriends Otto Kringelein, a dying accountant who has decided to spend his remaining days in the lap of luxury. Kringelein''s former employer, industrialist General Director Preysing, is at the hotel to close an important deal, and he hires stenographer Flaemmchen to assist him. She aspires to be an actress and shows Preysing some magazine photos for which she posed, implying she is willing to offer him more than typing if he advances her career. Another guest is Russian ballerina Grusinskaya, whose career is on the wane. When the Baron is in her room to steal her jewelry and she returns from the theatre, he hides in her room and overhears as she talks to herself about wanting to end it all. He comes out of hiding and engages her in conversation, and Grusinskaya finds herself attracted to him. The following morning, the Baron returns Grusinskaya''s jewels, and she forgives his crime. She invites him to accompany her to Vienna, an offer he accepts. The Baron is desperate for money to pay his way out of the criminal group he had been working with. He and Kringelein get a card game going, and Kringelein wins everything, then becomes intoxicated. When he drops his wallet, the Baron stashes it in his pocket, intending to keep the winnings. However, after Kringelein begins to search for his lost belongings, the Baron – who desperately needs the money but has become very fond of Kringelein – pretends to have discovered the wallet and returns it to him. As part of a desperate merger plan, Preysing must travel to London, and he asks Flaemmchen to accompany him. Later, when the two are in her room, which opens on to his, Preysing sees the shadow of the Baron rifling through his belongings. He confronts the Baron; the two struggle, and Preysing bludgeons the Baron with the telephone, killing him. Flaemmchen sees what happened and tells Kringelein, who confronts Preysing. He insists he acted in self-defense, but Kringelein summons the police and Preysing is arrested. Grusinskaya departs for the train station, expecting to find the Baron waiting for her there. Meanwhile, Kringelein offers to take care of Flaemmchen, who suggests they seek a cure for his illness. As they leave the hotel, Doctor Otternschlag again observes, "Grand Hotel. Always the same. People come. People go. Nothing ever happens."'
'comedy','Jean, Polaire, and Schatze are ex-showgirls who put their money together in order to rent a luxurious penthouse apartment. They are out to get wealthy boyfriends by dressing and acting like millionaires themselves. Jean shows herself to be determined and ruthless, leaving the other girls behind. The other two are more sensitive and trustworthy but only one woman will be able to find a rich husband. Which is she?'
'musical','One evening on a sidewalk in Harlem, Jean Stratton (Anise Boyer)—a young unemployed actress and dancer from West Virginia—stands next to "The Tree of Hope", openly praying and imploring the legendary tree to help find her work. When she stops several passing men to ask how long she needs to stand under the tree to get a job, a nearby police officer thinks she is a soliciting prostitute, so he arrests her. A group of spectators gather around the officer and Jean, including "Money" Johnson (James Baskett), who gets the officer to release her. Money is a local theater owner widely known in Harlem. He is also a rackateer who specializes in "policy games" or gambling, as well as circulating phony investment schemes around New York, Philadelphia, and in other cities. After the officer and others leave, Money offers Jean a job at his Acme Theatre, gives her some cash as an advance on her salary, and tells her to report to his office the following day. After meeting with Jean at his theater the next day, Money introduces her to Bill (Bill Robinson), Acme''s star performer and director of its dance and other stage productions. At rehearsal Jean also meets another performer, a handsome young actor and dancer named "Chummy" Walker (Henri Wessell). Both Chummy and Bill are immediately smitten with Jean even though she initially refers to them as her protective "big brothers". Money, however, has his own plans to seduce her. Following another rehearsal, Money warns Chummy that "Miss Stratton" is more than his protégée, declaring "she''s my personal and private property". He then orders Chummy to invite Jean to a party in his office after that evening''s show. The party will actually be an intimate dinner with just Money. Chummy warns Jean of Money''s intentions, but she ignores him and goes to the office, where the theater boss forces himself on her. As she struggles to leave, Bill enters the office, a fight ensues, and Bill knocks out Money. The next day Bill and Jean learn they have been fired. Bill quickly gets a new job performing at a nearby nightclub owned by Knobs Moran (Bob Sawyer), Money''s bitter rival in both entertainment and crime. Money now seeks revenge, especially against Chummy for divulging his wanton plan to take advantage of Jean. Money therefore hatches another plan, one to get Chummy imprisoned. He enlists him as the front man in marketing a bogus new hair-straightening product. Money arranges the scam so he is not openly involved, while assuring Chummy that the new product is genuine and will earn huge profits for everyone. Initially successful selling the product, Chummy is soon arrested and jailed for fraud after all the investors lose their money, including Bill''s close friend John "Spider" Mason, who had committed most of his life savings to the enterprise. While visiting the police station to see Chummy, Jean learns of Money''s role in devising the fraud, so she visits Greta (Alma Smith), one of Money''s girlfriends who knows details about the scheme. After a brutal fight with Greta, Jean forces her to provide the district attorney with information proving Money''s guilt, which results in Chummy''s release from jail. Spider then learns from newspaper reports that it was Money, not Chummy, who had concocted the phony investment. Now seeking his own revenge for the loss of his money, Spider confronts Money in his office. After Money tries to shoot him, Spider uses a razor to kill the crime boss as he pleads for mercy. The story then ends in Bill''s apartment, where Bill, his mother visiting from Richmond, Jean, and Chummy have gathered. Earlier, Bill had realized that Jean and Chummy had fallen in love, so he urges them to get married before he cheerfully leaves the apartment to see another friend.'
'crime','Wong Low Get (Edward G. Robinson) is the most highly respected hatchet man of his Tong. Having sworn total allegiance, he cannot turn down an order, even one to kill his best friend Sun Yat Ming (J. Carrol Naish). His friend forgives him in advance of his execution, begging only that Wong raise his daughter Toya San (Loretta Young) as his own. Wong does as he has sworn, but as she grows up, he falls in love with her. She marries him out of a sense of obligation, but a handsome younger gangster, Harry En Hai (Leslie Fenton), gets her to leave Wong, disgracing him and leading to a shocking turn of events.'
'comedy','The plumber Mendel Marantz, a passionate inventor, hasn''t much luck and a family that doesn''t understand him. He finally strikes it rich with a dishwashing machine he invented. He finds an investor, Gassenheim, and begins to make his way up in the world. But Mendel''s troubles are not over; his family doesn''t share his dream to become the landlord of the house where they live on New York''s Lower East Side. They prefer to move uptown to Park Avenue and adapt to how rich people live. Mendel''s ideas for the house are not forgotten. The men he once told how he wished to transform the building take on the work of renovating it, with every detail he planned. Neighbours and visitors come to see the house and the new, beautiful penthouse. His wife and his children are still in Park Avenue and when Gassenheim stops paying royalties to Mrs. Marantz, she and the children come home, to find that Mendel is close to losing everything.'
'drama','The film centers around brutal conditions in a prison of the Southern United States.'
'drama','When orphaned Jimmy Mason is taken in by his Aunt Emma and Uncle Henry, he meets their boarder, Matt Kelly, who impresses the young man with his boastful swagger and alleged political connections, although in reality he''s a bootlegger. The boy''s life is disrupted when, as one of Kelly''s hired hands, he refuses to identify his boss during a police raid and is sentenced to three years of hard labor in reform school, where he befriends a sickly boy named Shorty, who eventually is sent to solitary confinement. When Jimmy realizes his new pal is seriously ill and desperately needs medical attention, he escapes and goes to Kelly and Kelly''s girl friend, Peggy Gardner, for help. Peggy contacts newspaper columnist Frank Gebhardt, who is anxious to expose the conditions at the state industrial school. The authorities find Jimmy at Gebhardt''s office, but before they can apprehend him Kelly admits his involvement in the bootlegging operation and the boy is set free. He discovers Shorty has died, victimized by a corrupt system.'
'western','Based on the novel Heritage of the Desert by Zane Grey, the film is about a rancher whose spread includes the only way out of the valley where an outlaw is hiding a huge herd of stolen cattle. When the outlaw decides to challenge the rancher''s claim to the land, the rancher stays one step ahead of him and hires a surveyor to remap and confirm the property lines.'
'comedy','Gar Evans (William Powell) agrees to promote Ginsburg''s product, artificial rubber created from sewage, only after his friend Mike Donahey (Frank McHugh) assures him it is not a scam. Gar is superstitious; he believes he will only succeed if his long-suffering girlfriend Francine Dale (Evelyn Brent) joins them on the venture. She, however, has given up on him, especially since he left her five days before to pick up something, and never came back. It is only with great effort that he convinces her to give him another chance. Gar quickly incorporates the "Golden Gate Artificial Rubber Company", rents a whole floor of a building, installs old crony Clifford Gray (Guy Kibbee) as president, gives Helen Wilson (Evalyn Knapp) a job as a secretary, and hires a lot of high-pressure salesmen to sell shares. As news spreads, natural rubber company stock prices start to fall, and Mr. Banks (Charles Middleton]) offers to buy the company on behalf of the established rubber firms, but the bid is too low for Gar. Banks then threatens to get an injunction preventing sales of Gar''s shares pending an investigation. Gar welcomes it. However, Ginsburg (promoted to "Colonel" by Gar), has misplaced the inventor of the process, Dr. Rudolph Pfeiffer (Harry Beresford). When he is finally located and set to work making a sample, Gar invites scientists to inspect the finished product, only to discover that Pfeiffer is a deranged crackpot (his next invention involves hens laying already decorated Easter eggs). Francine quits in disgust and prepares to sail to South America and marry Señor Rodriguez. Despite his lawyer''s advice to flee to another state, Gar insists on taking full responsibility. Just as all seems lost, Banks offers to reimburse all the shareholders and pay Gar enough to make a $100,000 profit just to be rid of the whole mess (and restore natural rubber stock prices). Gar rushes to the dock to retrieve the Golden Gate controlling shares, which he had signed over to Francine. While there, he wins her back by promising to give up promoting, only to have Donahey show up with a scheme for Alaskan gold/marble/spruce wood. Soon, Gar is plotting his next campaign.'
'comedy','The film revolves around college football and a game between the fictional Darwin and Huxley Colleges.[a] Many of the jokes about the amateur status of collegiate football players and how eligibility rules are stretched by collegiate athletic departments remain remarkably current.[5] Groucho plays Quincy Adams Wagstaff, the new president of Huxley College, and Zeppo is his son Frank, who convinces his father to recruit professional football players to help Huxley''s team. There are also many references to Prohibition. Baravelli (Chico) is an "iceman", who delivers ice and bootleg liquor from a local speakeasy. Pinky (Harpo) is also an "iceman", and a part-time dogcatcher. Through a series of misunderstandings, Baravelli and Pinky are recruited to play on Huxley''s football team; this requires them to enroll as students at Huxley, which creates chaos throughout the school. The climax of the film, which ESPN listed as first in its "top 11 scenes in football movie history,"[6] includes the four protagonists winning the football game by taking the ball into the end zone in a horse-drawn garbage wagon that Pinky rides like a chariot. A picture of the brothers in the "chariot" near the end of the film made the cover of Time magazine in 1932.[7]'
'drama','A pretty young bank clerk, Ruth Brock (Nancy Carroll), attracts the young men in the small town of Marysville. Rich playboy Romer Sheffield (Cary Grant) is no exception, even though he has Camille (Rita La Roy) staying openly at his mansion, scandalizing the locals. Jealous, Camille soon leaves. Ruth, however, is all business whenever Romer tries to become better acquainted with her at the bank. She agrees to go on a date on Saturday with fellow employee Conny Billup (Edward Woods). Romer invites Conny and his crowd to party at his estate, offering free food and drink, just so he can spend some time with Ruth. They stay long enough for Romer to take Ruth on a long walk and have a heartfelt conversation. The gang then heads to a lakeshore dance hall. Conny gets Ruth alone on a nighttime boat ride, but she jumps ashore to avoid his unwanted pawing of her. Out of spite, he leaves her behind. She has to walk to Romer''s estate. Conny eventually finds her there, but she does not want to see him, and Romer makes him drive away without her. Romer sends Ruth home in his chauffeured car; she is seen arriving home early in the morning by Eva Randolph (Lilian Bond), the daughter of an important bank executive. Inside, Ruth is pleasantly surprised to find childhood friend and geologist Bill Fadden (Randolph Scott) in the kitchen. He has returned to do some surveying after seven years away. Bill makes it clear he is in love with her. When Eva questions Conny about what happened the night before, he lies. The lies quickly spread, and soon the local gossips have distorted the story so much that everybody thinks that Ruth and Romer are having a brazen affair. As a result, Eva''s father fires Ruth. After quarreling with her mother (Jane Darwell), Ruth flees to Bill''s campsite. Caught in a rainstorm, she faints just outside Bill''s shelter. Bill finds her and brings her inside. When he is unable to awaken her, he removes her wet clothes to keep her warm. When she does regain consciousness, they become engaged, though she does not tell him about the ugly rumors. However, Conny maliciously has Eva invite Romer to the dance hall where Ruth and Bill are. Once Romer grasps the situation, he graciously tries to bow out, but Bill hears the vicious gossip and breaks off the engagement. By the next morning, Bill has reconsidered, but she informs him that while the stories were not true the night before, they are now in the morning. She spent the night with Romer. Romer picks her up and tells her they will get married in New York.'
'drama','Tony Ametto, a young steel-worker with immigrant parents, gets a scholarship to Yale, where he becomes a football star and finds romance with a young heiress.'
'drama','Sergeant James Allen (Muni) returns to civilian life after World War I, but his war experience makes him restless. His family feels he should be grateful for a tedious job as an office clerk, and when he announces that he wants to become an engineer, they react with outrage. He leaves home to find work on any sort of project, but unskilled labor is plentiful and it is hard for him to find a job. Wandering and sinking into poverty, he accidentally becomes caught up in a robbery and is sentenced to 10 years on a brutal Southern chain gang. He escapes and makes his way to Chicago, where he becomes a success in the construction business. He becomes involved with the proprietor of his boardinghouse, Marie Woods (Glenda Farrell), who discovers his secret and blackmails him into an unhappy marriage. He then meets and falls in love with Helen (Helen Vinson). When he asks his wife for a divorce, she betrays him to the authorities. He is offered a pardon if he will turn himself in; Allen accepts, only to find that it was just a ruse. He escapes once again. In the end, Allen visits Helen in the shadows on the street and tells her he is leaving forever. She asks, "Can''t you tell me where you''re going? Will you write? Do you need any money?" James repeatedly shakes his head in answer as he backs away. Finally, Helen says, "But you must, Jim. How do you live?" James'' face is barely seen in the surrounding darkness, and he replies, "I steal," as he backs into the black.'
'comedy, drama','Dying industrial tycoon John Glidden (Richard Bennett) cannot decide what to do with his wealth. He despises his money-hungry relatives and believes none of his employees is capable of running his various companies. Finally, he decides to give a million dollars each to eight people picked at random from a telephone directory before he passes away, so as to avoid his will being contested. (The first name selected is John D. Rockefeller, which is swiftly rejected.) Henry Peabody (Charles Ruggles) is unhappy, both at work and at home. A bookkeeper promoted to salesman in a china shop, Henry keeps breaking the merchandise, meaning his "raise" results in his bringing home less money than before, something his nagging wife (Mary Boland) is quick to notice. After Glidden gives him a certified check, Henry shows up late for work and then proceeds to gleefully wreak destruction on the wares. Barroom prostitute Violet Smith (Wynne Gibson) checks into the most expensive hotel suite she can find and goes to bed ... alone. Eddie Jackson (George Raft) narrowly avoids arrest for trying to cash a forged check. With his prior record, if he is caught, it will mean a life sentence in prison. When Glidden presents him with his check, Eddie is delighted ... at first. However, he does not dare show his face in a bank, and none of his criminal associates believes the check is genuine. Frantic to leave town and desperately needing to sleep, the penniless man gives the check as security for a 10 cent bed in a flophouse. The manager secretly calls the police to take away what he thinks is a lunatic, and uses the check to light his cigar. Ex-vaudeville performer Emily La Rue (Alison Skipworth) is very content with her life, running her tea room with the help of her partner, ex-juggler Rollo (W. C. Fields). Only one thing is lacking to make her satisfaction complete, and it is delivered that very day: a brand new car. However, when they take it out for a drive, it is wrecked when another driver ignores a stop signal. The heartbroken woman returns to her tea room, where Glidden finds her. She comes up with an inventive way to spend part of her great windfall. She and Rollo purchase eight used cars and hire drivers. They all take to the road in a long procession. When they encounter an inconsiderate road hog, Emily and Rollo immediately set off in pursuit and crash into the offender''s automobile. They then switch to one of their spare cars and repeat the process, until they run out of automobiles. At the end of the day, Emily purchases another new car, but it too is destroyed in a collision with a truck. No matter. Emily tells Rollo it has been "a glorious day". This sequence was probably wiritten by Joe Mankiewicz, since it contains a reference to his hometown Wilkes-Barre, PA. Prisoner John Wallace (Gene Raymond) has been condemned to the electric chair for killing someone during a robbery. After a tearful conversation with his wife Mary (Frances Dee), he is visited in his cell by Glidden. John is certain that his new-found wealth will save him, but it is too late. He is executed that same day, despite his protests. When clerk Phineas V. Lambert (Charles Laughton) receives his check in the mail, he shows little emotion. He merely leaves his desk, calmly climbs the stairs to the office of first the secretary of the president of the company, then to the office of the private secretary, and finally knocks on the door of the president himself. When he is admitted, Phineas blows a raspberry at his former boss and leaves. Glidden finds U.S. Marine Steve Gallagher (Gary Cooper) and his good buddies Mulligan (Jack Oakie) and O''Brien (Roscoe Karns) in the stockade for striking their sergeant. However, when Glidden gives Gallagher the check, Gallagher notices it is April Fools'' Day and assumes it is a joke. When the three men are released, they immediately head for a nearby lunch stand to see Marie (Joyce Compton), the pretty waitress. They all want to take her to the carnival, but none of them has any money. Then Gallagher remembers his check and that Zeb, the stand''s owner, is illiterate. He tells Zeb that the check is for $10 and gets Zeb to cash it. He and Marie head off to the carnival, but Gallagher cannot shake his pals. Then Mulligan becomes embroiled in a fight, his comrades join in, and the trio end up right back in the stockade. Through the bars, they watch dumbfounded as a fancily dressed Zeb steps out of a limousine, escorting an equally well-garbed Marie. The last beneficiary is Mary Walker (May Robson), one of many unhappy elderly women consigned to a rest home run by Mrs. Garvey (an uncredited Blanche Friderici). Mrs. Garvey is a petty tyrant who enforces her rules rigorously, to the displeasure of her charges, especially the spirited, defiant Mary. Mary uses her money to turn the tables. She pays Mrs. Garvey and the rest of the staff just to sit in rocking chairs while she and the other residents have a wonderful time partying and dancing with their gentleman friends. Mary''s spirit even reinvigorates John Glidden. Glidden ignores his doctor and looks forward to spending time with Mary.'
'science fiction','Shipwrecked traveler Edward Parker (Richard Arlen) is rescued by a freighter delivering animals to an isolated South Seas island owned by Dr. Moreau (Charles Laughton). When Parker objects to the freighter''s captain (Stanley Fields) mistreating M''ling (Tetsu Komai), an odd-looking passenger with strangely bestial festures, the captain tosses Parker overboard into Mr. Montgomery (Arthur Hohl) and Moreau''s boat. When Parker arrives at his island, Moreau offers Parker the hospitality of his home and introduces him to Lota (Kathleen Burke), a beautiful, gentle girl who seems a bit simple. When the two hear screams coming from a locked room, which Lota calls "the House of Pain," Parker investigates. He sees Moreau and Montgomery operating on a person without anesthetic. Convinced that Moreau is engaged in sadistic vivisection, Parker tries to leave, only to encounter brutish-looking men resembling apes, felines, swine, and other beasts emerging from the jungle. Moreau appears, cracks his whip, and orders the one known as the Sayer of the Law (Béla Lugosi), a wolflike creature, to repeat the rule against violence. Afterward, the strange men disperse. Back in the main house, the doctor corrects Parker''s mistaken impression. Moreau explains that he started experimenting in London many years previously, accelerating the evolution of plants. He eventually graduated to animals, trying to transform them into people through "plastic surgery, blood transfusions, gland extracts, and ray baths". He would still be working in England on his "bio-anthropological research" if a dog had not escaped from his laboratory and so horrified the people that he was forced to leave. He reveals that Lota is the sole woman on the island, but hides the fact that she is derived from a panther. Later in private, he expresses his excitement to his assistant, Montgomery, that Lota is becoming more human in her emotions due to her attraction to Parker. To keep Parker around to continue the process, Moreau sees to it that the boat that was to take Parker away is destroyed and places the blame on his beast-men. As Parker spends time with Lota, she falls in love with him. Eventually the two kiss, but Parker is stricken with guilt, as he has a fiancée, Ruth Thomas (Leila Hyams). When Lota hugs him, Parker feels pain from her fingernails, which have reverted to animal-like claws. In a fit of rage, he storms into the office of Dr. Moreau and tells him that he considers it criminal to turn panthers into women. Dr. Moreau calmly explains that Lota is his most perfect creation, and he wanted to see if she was capable of falling in love with a man and bearing human-like children. Parker punches Moreau and orders him to make arrangements for him to leave the island as soon as possible. When Moreau discovers that Parker found out about Lota''s nature because she is starting to revert to her panther origin, then he despairs, believing that he has failed – until he notices Lota weeping as humans do. His hopes are raised and he screams that he will burn out all the animal in her in the House of Pain. In the meantime, the American consul (George Irving) at Apia in Samoa, Parker''s destination, learns where Parker is from the cowed freighter captain. Ruth persuades Captain Donahue (Paul Hurst) to take her to Moreau''s island. She is reunited with Parker, but, as it is late, Moreau persuades them that it is too dangerous to return immediately to Donahue''s ship. They reluctantly agree to stay the night. The apelike Ouran, one of Moreau''s creations, tries to break into Ruth''s room. (It is implied that this is arranged by Moreau, who is eager to see if his beast-men can successfully mate with humans.) Fortunately, she wakes up and screams for help. Donahue then offers to try to reach the ship and fetch his crew. Moreau, seeing him depart, dispatches Ouran to strangle him. This has an unforeseen effect, however. The beast-men no longer feel bound by Moreau''s laws, as he has himself broken one of them. Reverting to their animal nature, they set their huts ablaze and defy Moreau, who tries to regain control with his whip, but to no avail. In desperation, he demands of them, "What is the law?" Their response is, "Law no more!" The beast-men drag the doctor into his House of Pain, where they bind the screaming man to the operating table and destroy him with his own surgical instruments. With help from the fed-up Montgomery, Parker and Ruth make their escape. Parker insists on taking Lota with them. When Lota sees Ouran following, she waits in ambush. In the ensuing struggle, both are killed. The others escape by boat as the island goes up in flames, presumably destroying all of Moreau''s work and eradicating the beast-men.'
'comedy','When his submarine, S89, is sunk by an excursion boat, Scotty (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.) is the last one left aboard after helping the crew to be rescued. However, navy divers are able to save Scotty and his heroics make him a hero. Retiring from the navy as a commander, he finds that, as a hero, he is in great demand. There are parades. Speeches, endorsements, banquets and autographs galore. Even his marriage to his sweetheart Janet (Mary Brian) is headline news. Everyone wants a piece of Scotty. The only thing that Scotty does not have in his freedom and a life of his own.'
'comedy, crime','In Vienna, Baroness Teri von Horhenfels (Kay Francis) relieves the boredom of her marriage to her rich but dull husband (Henry Kolker) with love affairs. One day, at an exclusive jewel shop to purchase a diamond ring, her tedium is lifted by a suave, charming thief (William Powell) and his gang. In turn, he is entranced by her beauty. He locks her husband and her latest lover, Paul (Hardie Albright) (of whom she has already tired), in the vault, and forces shop owner Hollander (Lee Kohlmar) to smoke a drugged cigarette that soon makes him forget his troubles. She however persuades him into leaving her free. However, he is not so carried away as to neglect his duties; he takes her ring, all 28 carats (5.6 g) of it. Teri returns home, to be envied her adventure by her friend Marianne (Helen Vinson). They are frightened to discover that an intruder has broken in and opened her safe. However, they become puzzled and relieved when they find that not only is nothing missing, but the ring has been returned. Marianne departs hastily, anxious to avoid becoming entangled in a scandal. The thief then appears; Teri tries to return the ring, since keeping it would raise uncomfortable questions. When he refuses to take it back, she accuses him of using her to hide out from the police. Then, Detective Fritz (Alan Mowbray) arrives, flushes out the robber, and takes the two into custody. However, all is not as it seems. It turns out that Fritz is a member of the gang. The thief had used the fake arrest to transport Teri to his house without protest for a night of romance. She is intrigued. Vienna has become too dangerous for him, so he asks her to meet him in Nice, but she hesitates. Just then, the real police surround the place. He and his gang escape, leaving Teri tied up so as to divert suspicion. After she is "rescued", she decides she needs a vacation away from Vienna to recover from the excitement... in Nice.'
'drama','A doctor, Lyle Talbot as Dr. Robert Cromwell, is charged with murder, when a patient dies, after an experimental operation to remove a brain tumor. His pilot friend, Frank Hawks as Donald Evans, convinces him to start a new life; and, they plot their course, across the Bering Strait. The weather blows them off course; and, they end up in Alaska. There the doctor is faced with a new dilemma. Mark, Henry B. Walthall as Mark Armstrong, the Father of Jim, Jason Robards Sr. as Jim Armstrong, a man crippled by a similar brain tumor, begs the doctor to attempt the operation. When the doctor refuses, he accuses him of wanting his son to die, because he’s in love with Jim''s fiancée, Thelma Todd as Klondike. "Doc" acquiesces, at Klondike''s insistence. Although, having none of the facilities of a hospital. He believes that the operation is less likely to succeed, the longer it is delayed. The operation seems to be a partial success. But, now, Jim will do anything to keep "Doc" from taking Klondike back to the States with him, even using his genius, with electricity, to electrocute him.[1]'
'drama','"Deadlegs" Flint, an embittered paraplegic who lives in the Kongo, controls the natives by using cheap tricks that appear to be magical. Assisting him with his magic tricks are his fiance Tula, two thugs, Hogan and Cookie, and a loyal native, Fuzzy. Flint has spent the last eighteen years planning revenge against a man named Gregg who stole his wife and took her away from the jungle. Flint has built a sixty-mile, fortified encirclement of his compound that prevents anyone from entering or leaving without Flint''s consent. Having seen to it that Gregg''s daughter Ann is brought up innocently by nuns in a convent in Cape Town, Flint sends Hogan to bring her to his compound. In Cape Town, Hogan, dressed as a missionary, is able to convince Ann to go with him into the Kongo by saying that he will take her to her father. When she arrives at Flint''s compound, Ann is held as a prisoner. After spending months confined to a brothel in Zanzibar, Ann has become a hardened alcoholic, who does Flint''s bidding for whiskey, and has no idea why he has brought her to his camp and degraded her. When a cynical, drug-addicted doctor named Kingsland arrives at the camp, he and Ann fall in love. Flint, who needs Kingsland to be free from drugs in order to perform an operation on his legs, places the doctor in the swamp so that leeches can suck all of the drugs'' poison out of his system. Flint also tolerates Ann''s relationship with the doctor and its purifying effect, even while he ridicules her. Some time after the operation, Gregg arrives at the camp, summoned by Flint, who has stolen a large shipment of his rival''s ivory. Flint hopes to have the ultimate revenge against Gregg by showing him his now degraded daughter, then having him killed, and having Ann burned as the sacrifice in the natives'' burial ceremony. Flint taunts Gregg until Gregg finally recognizes Flint for the man he once knew as Rutledge. Years before, when Gregg was known as Whitehall, he ran away with Flint''s wife after kicking Flint in the back, paralyzing him, and leaving him for dead. From that time, Flint has plotted his revenge against Gregg and the girl who he thought was Gregg''s daughter. When Gregg proves, however, that Ann is actually Flint''s own daughter, Flint is stunned, and begs Gregg not to leave the compound or he will be killed (Flint had earlier ordered Fuzzy to shoot Gregg if he tried to leave the compound). Gregg does not listen to his old enemy and leaves, and Fuzzy kills him. Now desperate to save Ann from the natives'' sacrificial fire, Flint arranges for her and Kingsland to escape through a tunnel in the swamp that only Fuzzy knows. Just before Flint dies trying to keep the natives at bay, he prays that Ann will get away safely with Kingsland. Some time later, Kingsland and Ann are on a boat sailing away from Africa, about to be married by the ship''s captain.'
'comedy','Middle-aged Mrs. Livingston Baldwin Crane (Edna May Oliver) is selected to serve on a jury for the murder trial of French ex-showgirl Yvette Gordon (Jill Esmond), accused of killing her rich, much older husband. The prosecutor calls only two witnesses, a doctor and Mrs. Gordon''s maid, Evelyn Snow. Snow testifies that after she found Mrs. Gordon kneeling beside the body of her husband holding the murder weapon, a gun, her employer offered to pay her to say that Mr. Gordon committed suicide. Mrs. Gordon, on the other hand, claims that Snow demanded money to tell the police that story. On the witness stand, Mrs. Gordon says she went away for a week to get away from Mr. Gordon for a while, then returned to an angry, suspicious husband who threatened her with a gun. She states they struggled, and the gun went off by accident. During the testimony, Mrs. Crane asks several questions of the witnesses, much to the annoyance of Judge Henry Fish. She discovers that Snow was recommended to Mrs. Gordon by Chauncey Gordon, Mr. Crane''s nephew and sole relative (and heir if Mrs. Gordon is convicted). When the jury retires to consider a verdict, Mrs. Crane casts the sole “not guilty” vote. When asked why, she replies, "Woman''s intuition." After lots of convincing and several votes, the count is ten to two in favor of acquittal. During the deliberations, the wealthy Mrs. Crane manages to (illegally) pass a note to her maid Suzanne, instructing her to hire a detective agency to investigate further. When Mrs. Crane overhears a couple of the jurors debating whether to switch their votes back to guilty, she recommends they reenact the death at the scene. In the Gordon mansion, Chauncey Gordon refuses to pay Snow any more money until after Mrs. Gordon is found guilty. When they see the jury drive up, Snow hides Chauncey in a secret compartment. However, the jurors find the secret compartment and him by accident. Furthermore, a telegram arrives, stating that the detective agency has found out that Chauncey paid Snow $10,000. As a result, the jury find Mrs. Gordon not guilty.'
'comedy','Although she is an heiress and quite lovely, Venice Muir is very shy. She is flattered when flirtatious Donnie Wainwright urges her to elope to Paris with him, then irked when he abandons her before their ship departs. Venice gets an idea, hiring a penniless fellow, Guy Bryson, to pretend to be a gigolo and spread word of Venice''s effect on men. Soon she is the toast of Paris, suitors lining up to woo her, including Rene, a man of noble lineage. Unbeknownst to her, Rene is in serious debt. When she rejects his proposal, Rene commits suicide, enhancing Venice''s reputation as a heartbreaking vixen. Sailing back home, Venice is followed by more gossip, including some about Guy. A dazzled Donnie begins pursuing her again, finally winning over Venice without ever knowing of her ruse.'
'drama','The movie presents the life in a prison where men are on death row. Some of them are wrongfully accused and convicted, there is nothing else in their future but the electric chair. Richard Walters is condemned to death for crime he claims he never committed. While the drama inside the prison unfolds, his friends on the outside are trying to find evidence that he is innocent.[2]'
'drama','Anton Adam is a lawyer who has just got a client acquitted against the uptown New York lawyer Granville Bentley. Granville offers the poor lawyer partnership and he accepts. Anton''s faithful secretary Olga Michaels isn''t delighted to see Anton disrespecting the law. His downfall comes when he meets the beautiful Virginia, an actress who is introduced as a woman whose doctor has abandoned her and now seeks help. Anton sues Dr. Gresham, but Virginia soon calls him she wants to drop the charges. He responds with anger, which Virginia records. Now, Anton is sued for blackmail and must face a tough jury. He loses his partnership with Bentley and he decides to become ruthless. With only his secretary on his side, Anton returns to his old neighbourhood to set up an honest legal practice.'
'drama','At a maternity hospital, future fathers pace the corridors while their wives wait for their babies either anxiously or happily. Efficient and compassionate nurse Miss Bowers keeps the ward running smoothly. Things liven up when Grace Sutton is transferred from the prison where she is being held for murder. Most agree that the man she killed deserved to die, and Nurse Bowers sympathetically allows Grace''s concerned husband Jed unlimited time with his wife. In the ward, the women have varied feelings about motherhood. Mrs. West, a mother of six children, thinks babies are what give meaning to women''s lives. In contrast, Florette, a showgirl, just wants to get rid of her twins as soon as possible. Miss Layton has decided opinions about child rearing and has no intention of being a doting mother. While the women debate their various theories, a woman who wants a baby so much that she has become demented wanders in from another ward. An Italian woman quietly sobs when she learns that her newborn has died. After a touching farewell with Jed, Grace, whose health has suffered from prison conditions, is taken into the labor room. While Jed waits anxiously, Florette is appalled by the plans that the prospective adoptive mother of her twins has concocted. She cradles one baby herself and discovers mother love. Miss Layton has also given up on her progressive plans for her baby. Down the hall, things are going badly for Grace. When the doctors ask Jed to choose between saving Grace or the baby, he chooses Grace, but she herself insists that the doctors operate and save the baby. After she dies, Jed refuses to see the baby girl, but wise Nurse Bowers places the child in his arms, and as with the mothers, he cannot resist her charms.'
'drama, war','Captain "Gibby" Gibson (Richard Dix) and his close friend "Red" (Joel McCrea) spend the last hours of World War I in the air, shooting down more of the enemy. They then return to America with fellow pilot and comrade "Woody" Curwood (Robert Armstrong) and their mechanic Fritz (Hugh Herbert) to an uncertain future. Gibby finds his ambitious actress girlfriend Follette Marsh (Mary Astor) with a new boyfriend, one who can do more for her career. Good-natured braggart Red decides not to take back his old job, as it would mean the firing of a married man with a new baby. Woody learns that he is penniless, swindled by his embezzling business partner. Years later Gibby, Red and Fritz ride a boxcar to Hollywood to look for Woody and find work in lean times. At a movie premiere, they spot a prosperous Woody, who is working as a stunt flier. He offers them well-paying jobs working for disreputable and tyrannical director Arthur von Furst (Erich von Stroheim). Gibby is reluctant, as Follette is now married to von Furst, but finally gives in. Woody introduces his two comrades-in-arms to his sister, "the Pest" (Dorothy Jordan). She worries constantly about him, as von Furst utilizes dangerously worn-out aircraft and Woody drinks a lot. Both Gibby and Red are attracted to her. Gibby misinterprets her concern for him when he barely survives a crash (caused by parts of his aircraft falling off) as love. When Red impulsively asks the Pest to marry him, she agrees, and Gibby accepts the situation with grace. Meanwhile, von Furst is aware that his wife still has strong feelings for Gibby. He sabotages the aircraft Gibby is to fly for a dangerous stunt, secretly applying acid to a control wire, not only out of jealousy, but also to add to the realism of his film with a real crash. However, unbeknownst to him, Woody decides to do the stunt in Gibby''s place. Red sees von Furst tampering with the wires and alerts Gibby. Gibby takes off in another aircraft and catches up to Woody, but cannot make himself understood over the roar of their engines. The cable breaks, and Woody crashes and is killed. Red takes von Furst captive at gunpoint, determined to apply vigilante justice. Gibby and Fritz find out. Gibby starts to telephone the police to report a murder over Red''s objections. While they are arguing, von Furst tries to escape, and is shot and killed by Red. When police detective Jettick (Ralph Ince) shows up in answer to Gibby''s interrupted call, the men hide the body. Sensing something wrong, Jettick insists on searching for von Furst. When he leaves, Gibby loads the corpse into an aircraft and takes off. He then deliberately crashes, killing himself and taking the blame for the crime.'
'drama','Wealthy socialite Carol Owen (Dorothy Mackaill) decides to take up flying. Gilligan (Jack Kennedy) sets her up with a homely instructor, but she requests dashing Jim Leonard (Humphrey Bogart) instead. Jim has some fun, taking her through some aerobatic maneuvers that leave her queasy, but still game. For revenge, she gives him a lift into town in her sports car, driving at breakneck speeds. They begin seeing each other. Carol learns that Jim is designing a revolutionary airplane engine, but cannot get any financial backing. She decides to give him a secret helping hand, persuading her skeptical financial manager, Bruce Hardy (Hale Hamilton), to invest in the project. Hardy is only too pleased to oblige, as he has asked Carol numerous times to marry him. Hardy keeps a mistress on the side, aspiring stage actress Linda Lee (Astrid Allwyn). Unbeknownst to him, she is Jim''s sister and in love with Georgie Keeler (Bradley Page), a Broadway producer. Things become serious between Carol and Jim. He begins neglecting his work and eventually spends the night with her. The next day, he asks her to marry him. She realizes that she is distracting him from making a success of his engine and turns him down. When Hardy asks Carol once again to marry him, she jokingly tells him she would only consider his offer if she were broke. He then informs her that she is. He has been paying all her bills for the past year. Hoping to help Jim, she agrees to wed Hardy. Hardy tries to break off his relationship with Linda. This is what Georgie has been waiting for. He has coached Linda to extort $50,000 from Hardy to finance a new play in which Linda will star, but the businessman will only write her a check for $10,000. To try to pressure Hardy, Georgie has Linda lie to Jim about the relationship. Meanwhile, Carol has second thoughts and goes to break the news to Hardy. Before she can however, Jim shows up and insists that Hardy marry his sister. However, when Hardy shows him the canceled $10,000 check endorsed to Georgie, Jim realizes Linda has deceived him. He apologizes and leaves. Carol decides to kill herself by crashing an airplane. As she starts to take off, Jim reads the suicide note she left with Gilligan. He manages to cling to the fuselage, work his way gingerly to the cockpit (while the plane is in flight), and reconcile with Carol.'
'comedy','Ronald and Betty plan to elope, but are overheard by a jewel thief who has just stolen a pearl necklace from the wedding Ronald and Betty were attending. The jewel thief plans to use the situation to his advantage and a mad chase ensues towards the end of the film.[2][3]'
'musical','The story describes an encounter between a Parisian tailor named Maurice Courtelin (Chevalier) and a family of local aristocrats. These include Vicomte Gilbert de Varèze (Ruggles), who owes Maurice a large amount of money for tailoring work; Gilbert''s uncle the Duc d''Artelines (C. Aubrey Smith), the family patriarch; d''Artelines'' man-hungry niece Valentine (Loy); and his other 22-year-old niece, Princesse Jeanette (MacDonald), who has been a widow for three years. D''Artelines has been unable to find Jeanette a new husband of suitable age and rank. The household also includes three aunts and an ineffectual suitor the Comte de Savignac (Butterworth). Maurice custom-tailors clothing for de Varèze on credit, but the Vicomte''s unpaid tailoring bills become intolerable, so Maurice travels to de Savignac''s castle to collect the money owed to him. On the way, he has a confrontation with Princesse Jeanette. He immediately professes his love for her, but she haughtily rejects him. When Maurice arrives at the castle, Gilbert introduces him as "Baron Courtelin" in order to hide the truth from the Comte . Maurice is fearful of this scheme at first, but changes his mind when he sees Jeanette. While staying at the castle, he arouses Valentine''s desire, charms the rest of the family except for Jeanette, saves a deer''s life during a hunt, and continues to woo Jeanette. The Comte de Savignac discovers that Maurice is a fake, but the Vicomte then claims that Maurice is a royal who is traveling incognito for security reasons. Finally, Jeanette succumbs to Maurice''s charms, telling him "Whoever you are, whatever you are, wherever you are, I love you." When Maurice criticizes Jeanette''s tailor, the family confronts him for his rudeness, only to catch him and Jeanette alone with Jeanette partially undressed. Maurice explains that he is redesigning Jeanette''s riding outfit, and he proves this by successfully altering it, but in the process he is forced to reveal his true identity. Despite her earlier promise, Jeanette recoils from him and runs to her room on hearing that he is a commoner. The entire household is outraged, and Maurice leaves. However, as a train carries him back to Paris, Jeanette struggles with her fears, finally realizes her mistake, and catches up to the train on horseback. When the engineer refuses to stop the train, she rides ahead and stands on the track. The train stops, Maurice jumps out, and the two lovers embrace as steam from the train envelops them.'
'drama','At Goro''s Tea House, we are introduced to Cho-Cho San (Sylvia Sidney) who is bidding farewell to her mother and grandfather. She is about to undergo training as a geisha in exchange for money that will support her family. After the relatives leave, Goro introduces Prince Yamadori, a prospective husband, to Cho-Cho San. When Yamadori finds her withdrawn, Madame Goro explains that Cho-Cho San is high-born and is not yet used to the geisha life style. Meanwhile, on board an American steamship due to arrive in Japan for several months'' stay, Lieutenant Barton (Charlie Ruggles) convinces his friend Lieutenant Ben F. Pinkerton (Cary Grant) that once they arrive to skip the American Counsul''s party and plan to enjoy themselves instead. Pinkerton looks at a photograph of a blonde woman inscribed to him ''from Adelaide'' and hides it in his clothing trunk. Back at Goro''s, Mrs. Goro prepares Cho-Cho San for another meeting with Yamadori by dressing her more elegantly. Meanwhile, Pinkerton and Barton enter Goro''s, and are greeted by geishas. They are seated and watch a performance of dancing and music played by the geishas, and begin to become intimate with them. Goro interrupts so Pinkerton wanders to a different room and, through a screen, sees a dancing silhouette. Entering further, he discovers Cho-Cho San practicing her dancing. Despite Goro''s admonishment, he is immediately enchanted with Cho-Cho San, who runs away to the garden in fear. Pinkerton catches up to her and they talk. Yamadori comes to meet Cho-Cho San again. Goro pretends she is indisposed but a neighboring geisha reveals that she is with a naval officer. Infuriated, Yamadori vows never to set foot in Goro''s house again. This makes Goro angry at Cho-Cho San, since Yamadori was Goro''s best client. Goro threatens to shame Cho-Cho San''s family because she has been disobedient. Pinkerton asks Goro to explain why he is so angry, and Goro tells him that Cho-Cho San was supposed to marry Yamadori. Barton takes Pinkerton aside and tells him that "marriage" to Japanese is just a formality: when husbands desert, the geishas can automatically be considered divorced. Realizing how easy the situation is, Pinkerton informs Goro of his intention to marry Cho-Cho San. Cho-Cho San''s relatives assemble at the couple''s new house, and the marriage takes place as a tea ceremony. Afterwards, Cho-Cho San prays at her home altar, adorned with a picture of her ancestors. Pinkerton asks Barton to send the relatives away, while he gets to know Cho-Cho San better and shows her how to kiss. Several days later, Pinkerton arrives home, where Cho-Cho San greets him with honors. He gives her a translucent veil. She offers him drink and a pipe to smoke. He asks for a change of pants and Cho-Cho San obliges. While searching for the pants within Pinkerton''s trunk, Cho-Cho San discovers the picture inscribed to Pinkerton by a blonde woman (which Pinkerton hid in the earlier scene). With a serious face, she brings it to Pinkerton and asks if he is in love with that woman. He denies it; she embraces him, happy again, but he maintains a serious face. Several weeks later, the home altar now shows a picture of Pinkerton. Cho-Cho San happily receives Pinkerton and Barton. In an aside to Barton, Pinkerton explains that he hasn''t had the courage to tell Cho-Cho San that he''s leaving the following day. Barton suggests they all have dinner at the hotel. While eating, the commander of the naval vessel visits the table, mentioning they are due to leave tomorrow. Cho-Cho San is taken aback. Returning home, Cho-Cho San is upset, so Pinkerton sings to her "My Flower Of Japan". The following day, Pinkerton is leaving but asks Cho-Cho San not to see him off at the dock. Cho-Cho San asks about the girl in the picture but Pinkerton says he loves only Cho-Cho San and promises to come back in the spring. "When the robins nest again?" asks Cho-Cho San and Pinkerton affirms. The scene cuts to the next spring, and Butterfly happily holds her infant son. She points out that a robin has nested and speaks to her son, revealing his name as "Trouble" for now, but when Pinkerton returns, it will be changed to "Joy". The scene cuts to a robin building a nest. It is in the garden of a house owned by Pinkerton and the woman, Adelaide, from the photograph. A ring on the fourth finger of her left hand indicates that she is engaged. She remarks that it is now spring to Pinkerton, who looks troubled. In response, she mentions that ever since he''s returned from Japan he has been different. He offers to tell her something that might upset her and she agrees. The scene ends. In Cho-Cho San''s home, her grandfather asks her to marry Yamadori, but Cho-Cho San explains that, unlike in Japan where desertion is ground for divorce, in the United States divorce can only be effected by a judge after a period of years. He asks her to return home, if only for the sake of the child, but she rejects her grandfather''s ways, saying that she and the entire house belong to Pinkerton. Angrily, her grandfather disowns her and asks that she never enter his house again. Meanwhile, Pinkerton and his newly married wife Adelaide walk down the marriage aisle to the strains of Mendelssohn''s music and rice being thrown by guests. Back in Japan, Cho-Cho San remarks that the robins have nested three times. She goes to see the American consul and asks about the nesting habits of American robins. Understanding what has happened, he explains that, in the United States, they nest only once in three years. Relieved, Cho-Cho San leaves happily. The consul sends a telegram to Pinkerton asking him to come. Meanwhile, Cho-Cho San goes to a temple to pray. Cho-Cho San sees a naval ship in the distance and is overjoyed at Pinkerton''s imminent return, explaining it to her son. At the ship dock, Pinkerton arrives with Barton and is met by Adelaide. Barton mentions that the Consul will be having a party that night, and Pinkerton thinks that''s why he sent the telegram. Cho-Cho San suggests to Suzuki that they surprise Pinkerton: Suzuki will be with Trouble in the next room and only bring him out at Cho-Cho San''s clap. They sit down by the window to watch for Pinkerton''s approach. Suzuki and Trouble fall asleep, but Cho-Cho San continues to watch all night through the morning. Suzuki wakes and encourage Cho-Cho San to go to bed. Dejected, she still believes Pinkerton will come, despite Suzuki''s warnings that "men always forget." In their hotel room, Pinkerton explains the situation to his Adelaide. She suggests that once he talks with Cho-Cho San, all will be cleared up. He asks her to accompany him and she assents. Pinkerton and Adelaide arrive at Cho-Cho San''s house. He asks Adelaide to wait. He goes up to the house and is greeted by a wildly happy Cho-Cho San. Her happiness turns serious as he explains that he must leave soon and is never coming back. Cho-Cho San sees a woman waiting, and realizes that Pinkerton has married another woman – the woman she had seen in the picture. In tears, she bids him goodbye. Crying, she tells Trouble that his father has taken another woman, while Trouble fidgets with an ancestral heirloom, a knife. She then tells Suzuki to take Trouble to his grandfather, who will raise Trouble "in the ways of his ancestors." She tells Suzuki she will follow after she prays. As she prays, she recalls the American marriage vow "till death do us part". She unsheathes the knife and sees the inscription "To die with honor when one can no longer live with honor." Wrapping the veil Pinkerton gave her around her neck, she stabs herself. Her dying words are "I love you for always."'
'drama, sports','Middleweight contender Eddie Burke needs to change managers after his, Doc Williams, sets up a big fight at Madison Square Garden for him. Eddie becomes distracted by too much partying and girlfriend Bee, who is understandably worried about him. Eddie falls into the hands of a crooked trainer, "Honest John" Miller, who works for a racketeer, Sloane. He is made to lose the fight, Miller wrapping his opponent''s hands in plaster, and takes a terrible beating. But when the truth comes to light, some of Eddie''s fellow boxers go after the crooks with their fists.'
'comedy','A small-town delivery boy Merton Gill (Stuart Erwin) arrives in Hollywood, bright-eyed and bushy-tailed and complete with a diploma from the National Correspondence Academy of Acting. Crashing the gates of Majestic Pictures Merton manages to fumble his one line bit in the latest Buck Benson (George Templeton) western and is fired on the spot.[2]'
'drama','Manhattan Tower is about a couple by the names of Mary Harper (Mary Brian) and Jimmy Duncan (James Hall). Both work at the Empire State Building: he as an engineer, she''s a secretary. They would like to marry and buy a house that they saw advertised in a window in the building lobby, but they need more money. Mary asks her womanizing boss for advice, and he persuades her to give him all her savings to invest. Unbeknownst to her, the boss has speculated in the commodity market, and lost not only his money and that of his wealthy wife, but also some of the firm''s funds too. His wife would like to quietly divorce him to marry her politician friend, but the husband asks her for money to avoid a scandal. When Mary changes her mind and asks for the restitution of her savings, her boss refuses and mistreats her. That causes a confrontation between Jimmy and Mary''s boss, and they fight. Meanwhile, also the politician and an honest accountant of the firm, who discovered his superior''s misdeeds but kept silent fearing to lose his job, decide to confront Mary''s boss. During the fight, he takes a gun from a drawer, and menaces them all. He trips and falls through a window to his death. The witnesses decide to declare it was a suicide and go on with their lives. There are other intertwining stories of people who work at the Empire State Building, and a bank run started by a casual comment by the politician''s secretary.'
'drama','A disgraced doctor (Nagel) exiles himself to the South Seas, and is rehabilitated by meeting a society woman (Kenyon) and her irresponsible husband (Halliday).'
'war drama','In Paris at the end of the First World War, Sylvia Suffolk and British officer Tony Clyde get married, shortly before Tony leaves for the front. Sylvia, newly pregnant, is given the news that Tony is dead while working as a nurse for surgeon René Gaudin. Sylvia gradually falls in love with René, but is reluctant to remarry since she has no official news of Tony''s death. On holiday in Switzerland with René, Sylvia is shocked to find Tony is still alive, and convalescing, and now finds herself torn between duty to Tony and marriage to René.'
'romance','Lois Ames (Kay Francis) is the editor of 400 Magazine, whose wealthy husband, Fred (Kenneth Thomson), pays her little attention. His interests are polo and partying. When her personal secretary, (Charlotte Merriam), can no longer take the long hours of work and quits, Lois hires Tom Sherman (David Manners), a handsome man who happens to come by the office to demonstrate a rowing machine, as her new secretary. Tom soon makes himself indispensable to Lois, and their long hours spent together leads them to fall in love with each other. Tom''s fiancée, Ruth Holman (Una Merkel), senses something is going on and isn''t happy about it. Tom''s roommate, Andy Doyle (Andy Devine), uses Tom''s absences and Ruth''s distress to try to romance Ruth himself. Meanwhile, Lois''s husband, Fred, is having an affair with Anna Le Maire (Claire Dodd). Lois finds out when she discovers a key to Anna''s room in Fred''s vest pocket, which she puts on Fred''s pillow; nothing is said between them, but Fred now knows that Lois knows about his infidelity. After things go too far between Tom and Lois, Tom quits and begins to plan a wedding with Ruth. Lois tries to smooth things over with Fred, but instead they agree on an amicable divorce. On Tom''s last day of work, Lois keeps him busy until very late, and he misses a dinner engagement with Ruth and Andy. Ruth storms into the office, with Andy in tow, and threatens to tell Fred about the affair. Lois tells everyone about the divorce, Ruth breaks her engagement with Tom and threatens to marry Andy in revenge, and Tom asks Lois to marry him.'
'drama','While giving a private performance for a visiting monarch, concert pianist Montgomery Royle is deafened when a bomb is detonated in an attempt to assassinate the foreign ruler. With his career over as a result of his injury, Royle returns to New York City with his sister Florence, close friend Mildred Miller, and considerably younger fiancée Grace Blair. After abandoning thoughts of suicide, Montgomery discovers he can lip read, and he spends his days observing people in Central Park from his apartment window. As he learns of people''s problems, he tries to help them anonymously. He becomes absorbed in his game of "playing God" but his actions are without sincerity. One day Montgomery witnesses a conversation between Grace and Harold Van Adam, during which she tells the young man she loves him but cannot leave Montgomery because of his handicap. Moved by the generosity of her sacrifice, Montgomery confronts her and ends their engagement, allowing her to follow her heart. Montgomery continues to act as a philanthropist, but his attitude is changed and his motives become altruistic. He draws closer to Mildred, who always has loved him, and the two find happiness in their developing relationship.'
'horror, sci-fi','Sir Denis Nayland Smith (Lewis Stone) of the British Secret Service warns Egyptologist Sir Lionel Barton (Lawrence Grant) that he must beat Fu Manchu in the race to find the tomb of Genghis Khan. The power-mad Fu Manchu (Boris Karloff) intends to use the sword and mask to proclaim himself the reincarnation of the legendary conqueror and inflame the peoples of Asia and the Middle East into a war to wipe out the "white race". Sir Lionel is kidnapped soon afterward and taken to Fu Manchu. Fu Manchu tries bribing his captive, even offering his own daughter, Fah Lo See (Myrna Loy). When that fails, Barton suffers the "torture of the bell" (lying underneath a gigantic, constantly ringing bell) in an unsuccessful attempt to get him to reveal the location of the tomb. Barton''s daughter Sheila (Karen Morley) insists on taking her father''s place on the expedition, as she knows where the tomb is. She finds the tomb and its treasures with the help of her fiance Terrence "Terry" Granville (Charles Starrett), Von Berg (Jean Hersholt), and McLeod (David Torrence). Nayland Smith joins them soon afterward. McLeod is killed by one of Fu Manchu''s men during a robbery attempt, after McLeod kills one of Fu Manchu''s men. When that fails, an emissary offers to trade Barton for the priceless artifacts. Despite Terry''s misgivings, Sheila persuades him to take the relics to Fu Manchu without Smith''s knowledge. However, when Fu Manchu tests the sword, he determines that it is a fake (Nayland had switched them). Terry is whipped under the supervision of Fah Lo See, who is attracted to him. Meanwhile, Fu Manchu has Barton''s corpse delivered to Sheila. When Nayland tries to rescue Terry, he is taken captive as well. Terry is injected with a serum that makes him temporarily obedient to Fu Manchu and released. He tells Sheila and Von Berg that Nayland Smith wants them to bring the sword and mask to him. Sheila senses something is wrong, but Von Berg digs up the real relics, and they follow Terry into a trap. Captured by Fu Manchu, the party is sentenced to death or enslavement, but not before Sheila manages to bring Terry back to his senses. Sheila is to become a human sacrifice, Nayland Smith is to be lowered into a crocodile pit, and Von Berg placed between two sets of metal spikes inching toward each other. Terry is prepared for another dose of the serum, which will make him a permanent slave of the whims of Fu Manchu''s daughter. However, Nayland Smith manages to free himself, Terry, and Von Berg. Using one of Fu Manchu''s own weapons—a death ray that shoots an electric current—the men incapacitate the arch-villain as he raises the sword to execute Sheila. When Fu Manchu drops the sword, Terry picks it up and hacks him to death. While Terry frees Sheila and carries her away, Nayland Smith and Von Berg incinerate Fu Manchu''s followers using the same weapon. Safely aboard a ship bound for England, Nayland Smith tosses the sword over the side so that the world will be safe from any future Fu Manchu.'
'drama','Though a lowly Chicago street cleaner, Swedish immigrant Paul Kroll (Warren William) is ambitious and unscrupulous. When a fellow employee is fired (due to one of Kroll''s schemes), Kroll convinces his foreman (John Wray) to keep him on the payroll (officially at least) so they can split his salary. Soon there are eight "phantom" workers, and Kroll and his partner have amassed $460. However, Kroll has been romancing his partner''s wife, Babe (Glenda Farrell), behind his back. Meanwhile, he has also been lying to the people of his hometown, telling them what a successful businessman he has become. As a result, when the local match factory is in trouble, his uncle begs him to return and save it. Kroll gets Babe to withdraw the money he has stolen, deceiving her into thinking they are running away together, then leaves her behind as he sails away to Sweden. Back home, he cons the local bank into giving him a loan to buy a second match factory so he can merge them. Only his friend Erik Borg (Hardie Albright) knows the truth about Kroll''s "success", so Kroll recruits him as his all-too-trusting second in command in his expanding business. Eventually, Kroll owns all of the match factories in Sweden. However, his ambitions do not stop there. Using information he obtains from beautiful, well-placed women he has charmed, he gains official match monopolies in first Poland, then Germany and other countries by offering loans to cash-strapped governments and bribes to corrupt officials. One day, while dining with Ilse Wagner (Claire Dodd), one of his conquests, he is dazzled by the beauty of star actress Marta Molnar (Lili Damita). Despite her initial rebuffs, he goes to great lengths to win her heart, even hiring a celebrated "gypsy violinist" to serenade her. So enamored is he that he dangerously neglects his business, financed by an ever-growing series of loans. However, he reluctantly returns his attention to his company. One of his agents discovers an eccentric recluse named Christian Hobe (an uncredited Harry Beresford) has invented an everlasting match, so Kroll has him locked away as a madman. When the stock market crashes, Kroll can no longer obtain a bank loan. In desperation, he buys $50 million in fake Italian bonds from forger Scarlatti (Harold Huber), whom he then dumps in the middle of a lake to drown. With the bonds as collateral, he obtains a $40 million loan from an American bank. Then he thinks of retiring. He asks Marta to marry him, only to discover that, in his frequent absences, she has fallen in love with Trino, the gypsy violinist. Much worse, his forgeries are detected, and his American loan is canceled. Kroll shoots himself on the balcony and his body tumbles into the gutter, where he started.'
'drama','In this wisecracking comedy, Dan Dolan (Spencer Tracy) is a cop whose beat is the New York waterfront. Dan has a soft spot for Helen Riley (Joan Bennett), a sharp-tongued waitress at a cheap diner, while her scatter-brained sister Kate (Marion Burns) is in love with Duke Castage (George Walsh), a sleazy low-level mobster. While Duke makes a play for Kate, both Helen and Dan know that he''s bad news, and Dan wants to put Duke behind bars before he can break Kate''s heart. Me and My Gal was directed by Raoul Walsh, one of the great craftsmen of the studio system—and also the brother of George Walsh, who plays the villain.'
'crime','Englishman Ronald Quayle was accused of murdering his father and, based on testimony offered by his stepmother Caroline, was found guilty and imprisoned. Managing to escape, he fled to the United States and found work in an oil field, where an explosion scarred his face. After undergoing plastic surgery, he returns home under the alias Robert Crockett, determined to prove Caroline and her lover Jack Utterson really killed his father. Having squandered her inheritance, Caroline has put the Quayle home on the market. Pretending to be a potential buyer, Ronald introduces himself to Caroline. Meanwhile, Scotland Yard Inspector Tracy has assigned Ronald''s former fiancée Peggy Lowel to inventory the contents of the house in the hope she will find evidence to clear Ronald''s name. Ronald initiates a romance with Caroline and, announcing his plan to elope to New York City with her, presents her with a magnificent necklace. At a Halloween party, Ronald plants the necklace on Caroline''s cohort Sam Lewis, who is killed by Jack. He conceals the body in a sarcophagus, and after Ronald finds it he reports his discovery to Inspector Tracy. During the ensuing investigation of the crime, Ronald and Jack fight near a statue of a feathered serpent, which falls on Jack. As he lies dying, he confesses to murdering Ronald''s father and implicates Caroline. Ronald is exonerated, and he and Peggy make plans to marry and settle in Quayle Manor.'
'drama','A destitute Marthe Preston is in dire straits in Paris until gambler Richard Dorval comes to her aid. In gratitude, she agrees to a scheme of Dorval''s to seduce and wed his rival, "Diamond Johnny" Silk, then help ruin Johnny''s horse-racing business interests. Marthe''s inside information enables Dorval and an accomplice, bookie Joe Farley, to bribe Johnny''s jockeys to deliberately lose races or to help them influence the odds. Johnny learns the truth and demands she leave. Martha has fallen in love with her husband, however, so she pretends to go along with a plot to poison Johnny''s horse, double-crossing Dorval and rejoicing in Johnny''s triumph.'
'comedy, drama','Jerry Corbett (Fredric March), a Chicago reporter and self-styled playwright, meets heiress Joan Prentice (Sylvia Sydney) at a party and they begin dating. Jerry soon proposes to Joan, and even though his economic prospects are dim and he is an alcoholic, Joan accepts his marriage proposal, against the objections of her father (George Irving). Even though Jerry becomes heavily intoxicated just before their engagement party, ruining it, Joan stands by him. Jerry writes some plays which are rejected, and fights his alcohol addiction. He manages to sell a play and the couple travels to New York to watch the production. The star of the play turns out to be Jerry''s former girlfriend, Claire Hampstead (Adrianne Allen), and on the premiere night he drinks heavily, becomes drunk, and mistakes Joan for Claire. Still, Joan stands by him. But, when Joan catches Jerry trying to sneak out to Claire''s one night she kicks him out. The following day she tells him that they will have a "modern marriage" and that she intends to have affairs herself. When Jerry is next seen, he is making a "Merrily we go to hell" toast with Claire. In turn, Joan and her date toast to the "holy state of matrimony–single lives, twin beds and triple bromides in the morning." Joan becomes pregnant and learns from her doctor that her health is poor. She tries to tell Jerry, but he is too occupied with Claire and she decides to move on. After he is unable to write a successful follow-up play, Jerry eventually realizes that he loves Joan, and regrets his behavior. He commits to sobriety, returns to Chicago, and works as a reporter again, but Joan''s father keeps them apart. Jerry discovers Joan has given birth from a gossip columnist and goes to the hospital to see her. Joan''s father tells him the baby day died two hours after his birth, that Joan is very ill, and that she does not want to see him ever again. However, Jerry sneaks into her room anyway, while Joan in pain is asking the nurse to send for Jerry, she has to see him. He discovers his distraught wife has been pleading to see him all along. A repentant Jerry pledges his love to her and they kiss.'
'comedy','While visiting the mythical country of Klopstokia on business, brush salesman Migg Tweeny (Jack Oakie) collides with a young woman (Susan Fleming) on the street and the two fall instantly in love. Her name is Angela—all the women in Klopstokia are named Angela, and the men are named George—and she is the daughter of Klopstokia''s president (W.C. Fields), whose country is bankrupt, and who relies upon his great physical strength to dominate a cabinet that is conspiring to overthrow him. Tweeny, hoping to win the hand of the president''s daughter in marriage, presents him with a plan to remedy Klopstokia''s financial woes: The president is to enter the 1932 Summer Olympics, win the weightlifting competition, and collect a large cash reward that has been offered to medalists by Tweeny''s employer. Tweeny then sets out to find athletes to make up Klopstokia''s Olympic team, and quickly discovers that the country abounds in athletes of preternatural abilities. The team, with Tweeny as their trainer, boards a steamship bound for America. Meanwhile, the rebellious cabinet ministers, who are determined to sabotage Klopstokia''s Olympic bid, have enlisted the services of "Mata Machree, the Woman No Man Can Resist" (Lyda Roberti), a Mata Hari-based spy character who sets out to destroy the Klopstokian team''s morale by seducing each athlete and then setting them against each other in a collective brawl. Her efforts have the intended effect: When the team arrives in Los Angeles, it is in no condition to compete. After a pep talk from Tweeny fails to inspire them, Angela tracks down Mata, defeats her in an underwater fight, and forces a confession from her before the assembled team, which restores the athletes'' fighting spirit. They take to the field and begin winning events. By the time the weightlifting competition begins, Klopstokia needs only three more points for victory. In the film''s final scene, Tweeny excites the president''s fierce temper in order to inspire him to a final superhuman effort. The president throws a 1000-lb weight at Tweeny, missing him, but winning both the weightlifting competition and the shot put for Klopstokia.'
'drama','Doc, a crook in Chinatown, must flee when Nikko, a local bazaar owner, gets fresh with Doc''s accomplice, Helen Smith, and Doc nearly kills him. Using the name John Madison, Doc hides out in Meadville, California, where he meets the Patriarch, a faith healer. Hoping to capitalize on the Patriarch''s reputation, Doc sends for Helen to pose as the Patriarch''s grand niece, Helen Vail, and she is joined by fellow crooks Frog, a contortionist, and Harry Evans, a pickpocket. Doc stages a mock miracle in which Frog is "transformed" from a crippled state to perfect health. At the same time, however, the Patriarch heals real cripples Bobbie Holmes and Margaret Thornton, who has come to Meadville with her millionaire brother Robert for the Patriarch''s miracle cure. The miracles cause a great fervor, and Doc collects money in Helen''s name from scores of believers, ostensibly to build a chapel. Robert falls in love with Helen, and one night, they get stranded on his yacht and Doc flies into a jealous rage, planning to kill Robert. Later, the Patriarch is nearing death, and Helen, Frog and Harry refuse to support Doc''s extortion efforts. Doc is about to abscond with the chapel money, when Robert tells him he proposed to Helen, but was turned down because she loves Doc. Suddenly sorry for his greed, Doc returns the money and swears his love to Helen as the Patriarch dies.'
'comedy','Helen Steele (Claudette Colbert) is bored to death of her empty socialite lifestyle. She decides to become an actress, but cannot get in to see producer Sydney Parker (Robert Strange). Fortunately, she learns that Parker will be at a party at the home of her friend Alice Connell. She wants the lead in Parker''s new play, The Siren. He feels that she is too nice a girl to convincingly play the part, so she bets him that, in exchange for an audition, she will be able to make Parker''s friend, mining engineer Jack Craigen (Edmund Lowe), fall in love with her within three days. She records Jack''s proposal of marriage on a phonograph record to provide proof, but then has second thoughts about what she has done. Before she can explain the situation to Jack, he is publicly humiliated when he and all of the other guests inadvertently hear the recording. As Jack storms out, he is introduced to Tracy, Helen''s fiance. Helen breaks off her engagement and rushes to Jack''s room to try to explain. Jack kidnaps her and steals another guest''s autogyro to carry her off to his home. When she tries to escape, he chains her up. While he is out getting some water to make coffee, she spots another man. He sneaks in, but then reveals that he is an escapee from a nearby mental asylum and thinks he is "Boney". She screams for help when he grabs a sword. Jack plays along and manages to trick the lunatic into entering a room, which Jack then locks. After Jack receives a call informing him that Tracy is on his way there, armed with a gun, he decides to let Helen go, but then they argue. During the ensuing struggle, she hits him on the head with a hammer, knocking him out, and runs away into the snow-filled woods. She manages to reach a forest ranger. Meanwhile, Boney gets out and locks Jack up. Reporter Fitzpatrick shows up and, mistaking the madman for Jack, warns him that Tracy is coming. Then two asylum guards show up to collect Boney, but he manages to get away. Eventually, everything gets straightened out, and the couple reconcile.'
'horror','The film opens with Ruth Earlton and her fiance Dr. Ted Carver arriving at her father''s house. She has been told that her father has died, and is returning to find out what will be done with the estate. They arrive on a stormy night, and are greeted by her invalid uncle Robert, the housekeeper Mrs. Krug and the housekeeper''s son Hanns. While exploring the mansion, Ruth is dismayed to find a large ape her father used to conduct experiments in the basement. She and the others then gather to learn how the Earlton estate will be divided. Earlton has left his estate to Ruth, but it will go to her uncle Robert in the event of her death. Very small monthly sums are also left to the housekeeper Mrs. Krug and her son Hanns. These two are very upset about the small amount of the allowance. When Ruth goes to bed that night, a large, hairy hand reaches through the headboard and attempts to strangle her. When she screams, it disappears. Her fiance and Mrs. Krug arrive at her room, and attempt to comfort her. Ted gives her a sleeping potion, and she falls asleep in a chair in her room while Mrs. Krug stays with her, taking the bed. The hairy hand reappears and strangles Mrs. Krug this time, killing her. Ruth awakens and alerts the rest of the household as to what has happened. Afterward, Hanns Krug meets with Robert Earlton in secret, and tells him that their plan to kill Ruth Earlton has failed and he has accidentally murdered his own mother. He blames Robert for this, and after mentioning the fact that Robert is his father, he strangles him as well, leaving him for dead. Dr. Clayton visits Robert''s room, and Robert regains consciousness. He tells Clayton about the plan he and Hanns had to murder Ruth, so that the estate would go to them instead. Clayton rushes out to find Ruth and warn her. She has already been taken by Hanns to the basement though, where he attempts to force the ape to kill her. The ape turns on him instead, killing him. Clayton arrives to find Ruth alive and well.[1]'
'adventure, thriller','In 1932, a luxury yacht is sailing through a channel off the western coast of South America. The captain is worried about the channel lights not matching the charts, but is quickly dissuaded from changing course by the wealthy passengers for the sake of time, including famous big game hunter and author Bob Rainsford (Joel McCrea). It is a calm evening, with the cheerful passengers relaxing over drinks and a game of cards. Bob and his companions are debating about whether hunting is at all sporting for the animal being hunted after a friend asks if he would exchange places with a tiger he had recently hunted in Africa. Bob replies that there are two kinds of people in the world: those who hunt and those who are hunted. The ship suddenly runs aground, causing the ship to take on water and heave violently. Water floods the boiler room, causing the ship to explode and sink into the channel. Rainsford and two others manage to get away and cling to wreckage, but the other survivors are eaten by a shark. He swims to a small, lush island. Wandering through the jungle, he sees the channel lights off the shoreline change, and suspects the ship was deliberately led off course to its doom. He stumbles across a luxury chateau where he becomes the guest of the expatriate Russian Count Zaroff (Leslie Banks), a fellow hunting enthusiast. Zaroff remarks that Rainsford''s misfortune is not uncommon; in fact, four people from the previous sinking are still staying with him: Eve Trowbridge (Fay Wray), her brother Martin (Robert Armstrong), and two sailors. That night, Zaroff introduces Rainsford to the Trowbridges and reveals his obsession with hunting. During one of his hunts, a Cape buffalo inflicted a head wound on him. He eventually became bored of the sport, to his great consternation, until he discovered "the most dangerous game" on his island. Rainsford asks if he means tigers, but Zaroff denies it. Later, Eve shares her suspicions of Zaroff''s intentions with the newcomer. The count took each sailor to see his trophy room, on different days, and both have mysteriously disappeared. She believes their host is responsible, but Bob is unconvinced. Then Martin vanishes as well. In their search for him, Rainsford and Eve end up in Zaroff''s trophy room, where they find a man''s head mounted on the wall. Then, Zaroff and his men appear, carrying Martin''s body. Zaroff expects Rainsford to view the matter as he does, and is gravely disappointed when Bob calls him a madman. He decides that, as Bob refuses to be a fellow hunter, he must be the next prey. If Rainsford can stay alive until sunrise, Zaroff promises him and Eve their freedom. However, he has never lost the game of what he calls "outdoor chess". Eve decides to go with Rainsford. The two initially succeed in avoiding Zaroff and his dogs. Eventually, they are trapped by a waterfall. When Rainsford is attacked by a hunting dog, Zaroff shoots and the young man falls into the water. Zaroff takes Eve back to his fortress to enjoy his prize. However, the dog was shot, not Rainsford. Rainsford eventually shows up while Zaroff plays the piano for pleasure. Zaroff says Rainsford has beaten him and gives him the key to the boathouse, but Rainsford discovers him holding a gun behind his back. Rainsford fights first Zaroff, then his henchmen, killing the henchmen and mortally wounding Zaroff. As Rainsford and Eve speed away in a motor boat, the dying Zaroff tries to shoot them. Unsuccessful, he succumbs to his wounds. He falls out of a window into the pack of his frenzied hunting dogs.'
'crime','Vincent Day (Warren William) is a prosecutor who is on the fast track to success. When a man he zealously prosecuted all the way to the electric chair is found to have been innocent, he becomes distressed and quits his job. At the suggestion of a friendly bartender, he decides to switch teams and become a defense attorney specializing in the representation of gangsters and other unsavory people. He will use any tactic to get his clients acquitted, up to and including drinking a slow-acting poison from a bottle of evidence to prove that the substance isn''t lethal. The jury acquits the man not knowing that immediately after, Day rushes into a Mob doctor''s office for a pre-arranged stomach pump. Celia Farraday (Sidney Fox) is a young secretary recently arrived in the city from a small town in Kentucky. When Day makes play for her, she spurns his advances, loyal to her fiance, Johnny (William Janney). When the fiance is framed for a crime committed by one of Day''s clients, Day''s affection for Celia not only prompts Day to defend Johnny by implicating his client in the crime, but to reconsider his life of getting criminals out of jail sentences. However, his associates send him a message that his departure will not be allowed. He lets them know that he has all of their secrets in a safe-deposit box, along with instructions for the bank to forward the contents to the District Attorney in the event of his unnatural death. They call his bluff and he is shot while leaving his office to attend Celia''s wedding. On the way to the hospital, he tells his faithful secretary that the criminals were wrong to call his bluff and that the information will be on the way to the DA. The movie leaves it ambiguous whether Day, shot several times, will survive his wounds. The film was remade in 1940—but with a different ending and starring George Brent—under the title The Man Who Talked Too Much.'
'comedy','Harold Hall, a young man with little or no acting ability, desperately wants to be in the movies. After a mix-up with his application photograph, he gets an offer to have a screen-test, and goes off to Hollywood. At the studio, he does everything wrong and causes all sorts of trouble. But he catches the fancy of a beautiful actress, and eventually the studio owner recognizes him as a comic genius.'
'adventure','The film opens with a title card that reads "From the time Adam and Eve were banished from the Garden of Eden, man has vainly sought to find solace, comfort and earthly pleasures in an artificial world of his own creation. Down through the ages has come that eternal heritage of the urge in every man to turn his back on so-called civilization, to get back to nature and revel in the glories and freedom of a primitive paradise." The Fairbanks character Steve Drexel voluntarily strands himself on a deserted island on a bet. He intends to re-create civilization (in the form of New York) and carves a comfortable home, complete with a sign reading 52nd Street and Park Avenue out of the jungle. Drexel is joined by his dog, and befriended by a native monkey, parrot, and a wild goat that is captured in one of his traps. He attempts to cultivate a "head-hunter" native as his Man Friday from Robinson Crusoe, but fails as the native escapes. A woman played by actress Maria Alba runs away from a marriage she does not want on a neighboring island and is trapped in one of his devices. He names her Saturday and she becomes the love interest of the film. In an attempt to communicate with Saturday, he tries German, Spanish, and then Pig Latin. Over the course of the film, she slowly learns rudimentary English. Eventually, the natives on a nearby island attack the Fairbank''s settlement at the behest of the men that bet against the main character. The hero defeats the hostile natives just as his friends arrive and he wins the bet. Coincidental to their arrival, a separate war party of natives (billed as head-hunters) arrives and attacks. Steve Drexel distracts them as his friends save his animals and head for the yacht. After a harrowing chase, he ends up escaping with his friends, animals and the girl Saturday on the yacht that brought him there. He takes her back to New York where she performs to an appreciative crowd in the Ziegfeld Follies.'
'drama, horror','In 1921, an archaeological expedition led by Sir Joseph Whemple (Arthur Byron) finds the mummy of an ancient Egyptian high priest named Imhotep (Boris Karloff). When an inspection of the mummy by Whemple''s friend Dr. Muller (Edward Van Sloan) reveals that the viscera were not removed, Muller deduces that although Imhotep had been wrapped like a traditional mummy, he had been buried alive. Also buried with Imhotep is a casket with a curse on it. Despite Muller''s warning, Sir Joseph''s assistant Ralph Norton (Bramwell Fletcher) opens it. He reads aloud an ancient life-giving scroll, the "Scroll of Thoth". Imhotep rises and escapes with the scroll. Norton is driven insane. Ten years later, Imhotep is masquerading as a modern Egyptian named Ardath Bey. He calls upon Sir Joseph''s son Frank (David Manners) and Professor Pearson (Leonard Mudie) and shows them where to dig to find the tomb of the princess Ankh-es-en-amon. After locating the tomb, the archaeologists present its treasures to the Cairo Museum and thank Bey for making their discovery possible. It is further revealed that Imhotep''s horrific death was punishment for sacrilege: attempting to resurrect his forbidden lover, Princess Ankh-es-en-amon. Imhotep soon encounters Helen Grosvenor (Zita Johann), a half-Egyptian woman bearing a striking resemblance to the princess. Believing her to be Ankh-es-en-amon''s reincarnation, he attempts to kill her, with the intention of mummifying her, resurrecting her, and finally making her his bride. She is saved when she remembers her past life and prays to the goddess Isis to save her. The statue of Isis raises its arm and emits a beam of light that sets the Scroll of Thoth on fire. This breaks the spell that had given Imhotep his immortality, causing him to crumble to dust. At the urging of Dr. Muller, Frank calls Helen back to the world of the living while the Scroll of Thoth continues to burn.'
'crime, horror','In Paris in 1845, a mad scientist, Dr. Mirakle (Bela Lugosi), abducts young women and injects them with ape blood, in order to create a mate for his talking sideshow ape Erik (Charles Gemora, the gorilla performer). Young Pierre Dupin, a young naive medical student and detective (Leon Ames — credited as Leon Waycoff — in the role of Poe''s standard detective icon, C. Auguste Dupin), his fiancée Camille L''Espanaye (Sidney Fox, in the role of an original character in the short story), and their friends Paul (Bert Roach) and his girl Mignette (silent film actress Edna Marion, in her last film role) visit carnival sideshows, including Mirakle''s sideshow, where he exhibits Erik. Both master and servant are enchanted by Camille, whom Mirakle plans to become Erik''s mate. He invites her to come and take a closer look at Erik, who grabs Camille''s bonnet. Dupin tries to get it back, when Erik tries to strangle him. Mirakle backs him off and offers Camille to replace the bonnet. But Camille is reluctant and suspicious to give the doctor her address, so, when they leave, Mirakle orders his servant Janos (Noble Johnson) to follow her. One of Mirakle''s victims, a prostitute, is found dead in a river (a homage to another Dupin-Poe tale, "The Mystery of Marie Rogêt"), and is fished out and taken to the police station. Dupin wants to examine the girl''s blood but the morgue keeper (D''Arcy Corrigan) won''t allow. A bribe convinces him to draw some of the blood himself and deliver it to Dupin the next day. Dupin discovers in the blood a foreign substance, also found in the blood of other victims. Mirakle visits Camille and asks her to visit Erik again, but when she refuses, he sends Erik to kidnap her. Dupin happens to be passing out of the flat, hears her screams, and tries to enter the room but it is locked. The police arrive when the ape has already retreated and Dupin is arrested. Neither Madame L''Espanaye (Betty Ross Clarke) nor her daughter are found. The police prefect (Brandon Hurst, in a role based on the character G—from Poe''s Dupin stories) interviews three witnesses: Italian Alberto Montani (Agostino Bogato), German Franz Odenheimer (Herman Bing) and a Dane (Torben Meyer). All of them state that they had heard Camille screaming and also someone else talking in a strange language (the German thinks it was Italian, the Italian thinks it was Danish and the Dane thinks it was German). Camille''s mother is found dead, stuffed in the chimney (the fate of Camille herself in the original story), and her hand clutching ape fur. Dupin points out from the fur that Erik himself may be involved. The police, along with Dupin, run to Mirakle''s hideout. Before they arrive, Erik turns against his master and strangles him. He grabs Camille when the police arrive and they chase him. The police shoot Janos in the back when he tries to keep them at bay. Erik, pursued, is cornered on the roof of a small dockside house. He confronts Dupin, who shoots the animal dead and eventually saves his fiancée from the peril.'
'western','Tom Reed''s (Tom Mix) famous traveling Wild West show performs in Alvonia, a small European country, where the child king, ten year old Charles V (Mickey Rooney), neglects his duties because of his interest in the show. After a discussion with Tom, Charles decides that he should treat his subjects fairly, which does not please Count De Mar (James Kirkwood) who has been in control of the country and wants to tax the people heavily. He plots with the Dowager Queen (Clarissa Selwynne) to kidnap Charles and his tutor, Dr. Lorenz (Wallis Clark), and throws them in a dungeon, and suggests to Lorenz that he kill Charles and then kill himself. Tom learns from Charles'' aunt, Princess Elsa (Noel Francis) that the king is missing, and Tom manages to track him to the fortress where the king is imprisoned. Tom''s cowboys and the count''s men fight, and the count ends up drowning to death. Tom then rescues the king and his tutor, and Charles promises to always treat his people well.'
'romance','Mr. and Mrs. Thomas are affluent New Yorkers who are unhappy that their adult children, Ralph Thomas (Robert Young) and Phyl Thomas (Margaret Perry), spend so many evenings at parties instead of spending time with family. Their disapproval deepens when they discover both children want to move out to pursue lifestyles that the parents deem unacceptable: Phyl moves into her own apartment so that she can conduct an affair with a married man, Duff Wilson (David Newell). Her brother, Ralph, goes to Paris to pursue his dream of being a painter, thus disappointing his father who expected him to remain in the family wallpaper business. Mrs. Thomas repeatedly tries to invoke guilt in both children for not being with her, especially after Mr. Thomas dies of a stroke. Eventually, Phyl marries her paramour and Ralph returns to New York, having failed as an artist. Mrs. Thomas dies shortly after Ralph’s return. At the end of the film, Phyl, her twin infants, her husband Duff, and her brother Ralph are all living in the family home, with a newfound appreciation for the benefits of family life. In the film’s last scene, Ralph and Duff are laughing together about how Phyl has evolved into a protective maternal figure, much like her own mother.'
'comedy drama','Joe Anton (Raft) is a speakeasy owner who falls in love with socialite Miss Healy (Cummings). He takes lessons in high-class mannerisms from Mrs. Jellyman (Skipworth). Joe does not know that Miss Healy only pays attention to him because he lives in the fancy apartment that her family lost in the Wall Street Crash of 1929. Joe decides to instead pursue his old flame Iris Dawn (Gibson) just as Miss Healy begins to genuinely fall in love with him.[3]'
'drama','On a cold winter''s night outside Happy''s Nightclub, Irish-American police officer Ryan (Robert Emmett O''Connor) chats with African-American doorman Tim Washington (Clarence Muse), who is worried about his critically ill wife. Inside, club owner Happy (Boris Karloff) is arguing with his shrewish but glamorous wife Jill (Dorothy Revier) and welcoming frequent customers Ed Powell (George Raft), a crooked gambler, and Michael Rand (Lew Ayres). Rand is a wealthy college boy who watched his mother kill his father after catching him with another woman, a case widely covered by the tabloids. Rand is now drinking heavily to deaden his pain. Backstage, gambler Powell asks chorus girl Ruth Taylor (Mae Clarke) for a date and, after losing an impromptu bet, she agrees to go out with him. After the floor show, all the chorus girls are asked to stay late by their cruel dance master, Klauss (Russell Hopton), who is secretly having an affair with Happy''s wife Jill. Edith Blair (Dorothy Petersen) spots a drunken Michael sitting alone at a table. Edith was the ''other woman'' in the murder of Michael''s father. She tell Michael that she and his father were only good friends, and that his father loved him deeply. She also tells Michael that his killer mother never loved his father, and cursed him as he was dying. An upset Michael creates an outburst and overturns a table at the nightclub. He passes out after being punched, and is taken to the back room of the club where Ruth cares for him. Happy leaves to discuss bootleg liquor purchases with another gangster, Jim. (Huntley Gordon.) As he exits, doorman Tim asks if he can leave early to visit is ailing wife, but Happy refuses. When Michael wakes up from his liquor-related nap, he and Ruth have a warm chat. Gambler Powell interrupts them and insists Ruth to come to his apartment immediately. Michael punches Powell and Tim takes the fallen gambler out to a taxi. Suddenly, Michael''s mother (Hedda Hopper) arrives at the nightclub. Michael confronts her about the way she treated his father. The late-night dance rehearsal continues, but Klauss calls a break so he can spend more time with Jill. Happy returns, and Tim asks again if he can go see his wife in the hospital. Happy refuses. Happy catches Jill and Klauss together, and Klauss leaves in disgrace. Happy tells Jill that he will not divorce her, but remain married to her and do his best to make her miserable. Michael and Ruth sit down for a meal together. Michael asks Ruth if she would be interested in running away to Bali with him, as his wife, even though they have only known each other for a few hours. Their happy moment is interrupted by Tim, who has just learned that his wife is dead. As he leaves the club to finally go to her bedside, he is fatally shot by gangster Jim and a comrade, who have come for Happy. They shoot Happy and then his wife Jill. When they turn their guns towards Michael and Ruth, they are suddenly shot dead by the returning police officer Ryan. Michael and Ruth get into the police wagon together, and Ruth agrees to go Bali with Michael.'
'drama','Card sharp "Babe" Stewart (Clark Gable) and his cronies, Kay Everly (Dorothy Mackaill), Charlie Vane (Grant Mitchell), and Vargas (Paul Ellis), cheat an unsuspecting Mr Morton (Walter Walker) at poker. Afterward, when Babe breaks up with his girlfriend Kay, she threatens to turn him in to the police, but he is not worried. Police officer "Dickie" Collins (J. Farrell MacDonald), who has been following Babe, then drops in to inform him that he has told Morton the truth. Worried, Babe decides to leave New York City for a while. He chooses the small town of Glendale, purely by chance. There he meets librarian Connie Randall (Carole Lombard), who is bored to death of Glendale, and tries to get better acquainted with her. She plays hard to get, figuring it is the best way to interest someone as experienced as Babe, but finds it difficult to hide her attraction to him. When he is ready to return to New York, she appeals to the gambler in him, getting him to flip a coin to decide whether or not to get married. The coin comes up heads, and they do get married. Babe continues his cheating ways, while letting Connie think that he has a regular job. To fill the daytime hours when he is supposedly at his job, he persuades a friend to let him work as a stock broker. He turns out to be good at it. Connie does not suspect anything until she sees Babe hide a stacked deck of cards in a secret compartment in the side of their card table prior to a fixed game one evening. She shuffles the cards and puts them back without anybody noticing. Babe and his confederates lose thousands of dollars as a result. Afterwards, Babe is surprised when Connie is willing to stay with him, even knowing what he does for a living. He decides to take a trip to South America with Vane and Vargas, but without her. At the last minute, he realizes that he loves her, so he does not board the ship. Instead, he tells Collins to charge him with something, and, in return for a confession, he will serve 90 days in jail to pay for his past misdeeds and "come clean". However, in order to keep Connie from discovering that he is in jail, he gets Vargas to send weekly cablegrams in his name to her from South America. A pregnant Connie receives a visit from Kay just before Babe''s "return" from his travels. Kay starts to tell Connie about her husband''s shady past, but is surprised to find that Connie already knows and still loves Babe. After informing Connie that Babe is in jail, Kay gives up trying to get Babe back and wishes Connie luck. When Babe gets out of jail, he purchases some South American "souvenirs", including a caged bird, from a local shop before he comes home to Connie. She asks him to tell her about where he has been. The film ends with Babe describing his fictional voyage to South America.'
'romance','The departure of an ocean liner is held up to wait for spoiled heiress Anne Holt (Carole Lombard). Tony Gage (Lyle Talbot) expresses his contempt of her inconsiderate behavior to a fellow passenger, who agrees with him, even though she is the woman''s paternal grandmother, Gran Holt (Louise Closser Hale). During the voyage, Anne and Tony become acquainted and fall in love, but he refuses to marry her because she is already engaged to Prince Carlos (Jameson Thomas) and because of the enormous financial gulf between them. He is too poor to even afford to buy her orchids. Anne''s father Bill (Walter Connolly) finds out and invites the man to dinner. He likes Tony very much. Eventually, Anne breaks down Tony''s resistance and they become engaged. However, there is a formidable obstacle—her grandfather Jerome Cedric (C. Aubrey Smith). He had already been foiled once before in his ambition to have royalty in the family, when his daughter married Bill against his wishes. The richest man in America, Cedric had arranged the marriage to Carlos, going so far as to finance a revolution to restore the prince to his position. When he learns of the danger to his plans, he first threatens to disinherit his granddaughter; when that does not work, he informs Anne that Bill''s bank is on the verge of bankruptcy and that he will not prop it up unless she marries his choice. Heartbroken, Anne gives in and breaks off her engagement to Tony without telling him the reason. When Bill finds out, he lies to Anne, telling her that he has found alternate financing to save the bank. He arranges an impromptu wedding for Anne and Tony. Then, he flies off in his plane, supposedly on business, but in reality to commit suicide.'
'comedy, horror','Philip Waverton (Raymond Massey), his wife Margaret (Gloria Stuart), and Roger Penderel (Melvyn Douglas) are lost while driving at night in a heavy storm. They come upon an old house in the Welsh countryside, where they are given shelter by Horace Femm (Ernest Thesiger) and his sister Rebecca (Eva Moore). Horace fears that the storm will trap them inside; he warns that their butler, Morgan (Boris Karloff), drinks heavily and is dangerous. Rebecca escorts Margaret to a bedroom to change clothes, and tells her about the Femm family, which Rebecca says was sinful and godless; she accuses Margaret of being sinful as well. Rebecca reveals that her 102-year-old father, Sir Roderick Femm (Elspeth Dudgeon), still lives in the house. During dinner, Sir William Porterhouse (Charles Laughton) arrives with his girlfriend, a chorus girl with the stage name Gladys DuCane (Lilian Bond). They are also seeking refuge from the storm. As the group chats by the fireplace, Gladys reveals her real last name is Perkins. Roger and Gladys go to retrieve some whiskey from his car. The electric lights go out and Rebecca tells Horace to get a lamp from an upstairs landing. Horace is afraid to go upstairs, so Philip goes instead. As he fetches the lamp, he notices a locked room and hears a voice coming from another room. William goes to help Rebecca close a window, leaving Margaret alone. Morgan, now drunk, attacks her and chases her up the stairs to Philip, who is coming down with the lamp. Philip throws the lamp at Morgan, knocking him down the stairs. Roger and Gladys begin flirting while they drink and smoke. Gladys says her relationship with William is platonic, and suggests she should live with Roger instead. They go back to the house, where they wake up William and tell him about their new romance. Meanwhile, Philip and Margaret go into the room where he heard the voice; they find Roderick Femm there. He warns them about his eldest son, Saul (Brember Wills), a pyromaniac who is kept in the locked room. Philip and Margaret discover that Morgan has let Saul out; they go downstairs to warn the other guests. Morgan comes downstairs and charges at Margaret. Philip and William drag Morgan into the kitchen while Rebecca flees to her bedroom. Roger tells Margaret and Gladys to hide in a closet. Saul comes downstairs and knocks Roger out. Saul steals a burning branch from the fireplace and sets fire to a curtain before Roger awakes. They fight and fall off a landing; Saul is killed and Roger injured. Morgan breaks out of the kitchen and returns to the main room. He frees Margaret and Gladys from the closet, then takes Saul''s body upstairs. The next morning, the storm has stopped. Philip and Margaret leave to get an ambulance, while Gladys and William stay behind to tend to Roger''s injuries. Roger awakes and asks Gladys to marry him.'
'comedy','The immense success of The Jazz Singer, the first all-talking picture, results in the cancellation of a booking for three song-and-dance vaudeville performers: Jerry Hyland, May Daniels and George Lewis. Jerry, convinced that talkies are the future, decides they will head to Hollywood to break into the fledgling movie industry before others get the same notion. May comes up with the idea to open a school of elocution to teach actors how to speak on film. On the train there, May encounters an old friend, Helen Hobart, an influential, nationally syndicated columnist. She offers to put them in touch with Herman Glogauer, the head of a major movie studio. George is smitten with another passenger, aspiring young actress Susan Walker. They discover the movie world to be an eccentric place. George is unexpectedly appointed by Glogauer as supervisor of production, allowing him to promote Susan''s career. Despite his incompetence (or rather because of it), his first picture turns out to be an critical and commercial smash hit, and Susan becomes a star. Later, a very persuasive salesman gets George to buy 2000 airplanes, which causes Glogauer to fire him. However, air movies become very popular, and George has inadvertently cornered the market. The other studios are desperate to get airplanes from Glogauer at any price, and George is once again considered a genius.'
'musical','Parisian doctor Andre Bertier (Maurice Chevalier) is faithful to his loving wife, Colette (Jeanette MacDonald), much to the surprise of his lovely female patients. But when Colette''s best friend Mitzi Olivier (Genevieve Tobin) insists upon being treated by Dr. Bertier, it looks to many of those concerned that Mitzi may succeed where the other willing ladies failed.'
'drama','Dan Hardesty (William Powell) is an escaped murderer, sentenced to hang. In Hong Kong, he meets Joan Ames (Kay Francis), a terminally-ill woman, in a bar. They share a drink, then Dan breaks his glass, followed by Joan. Police Sergeant Steve Burke (Warren Hymer) captures Dan when he leaves (though out of sight of Joan) and escorts his prisoner aboard an ocean liner crossing the Pacific to San Francisco. On board, Dan jumps into the water in a bid to escape, dragging a handcuffed (and non-swimmer) Steve with him, but spots Joan among the passengers and changes his mind. Once the ship is underway, he persuades Steve to remove his handcuffs. Dan and Joan fall in love on the month-long cruise, neither knowing that the other is under the shadow of death. By chance, two of Dan''s friends are also aboard, thief Skippy (Frank McHugh) and con artist "Barrel House Betty" (Aline MacMahon), masquerading as "Countess Barilhaus". The countess distracts Steve as much as she can to help Dan. Just before the only stop, at Honolulu, Steve has Dan put in the brig, but he escapes with their help and goes ashore. Joan intercepts him and they spend an idyllic day together. When they drive back to the dock, Dan starts to tell her why he cannot return to the ship, only to have her faint. Dan carries her aboard for medical help, forfeiting his chance. Later, Joan''s doctor tells Dan about her condition and that the slightest excitement or shock could be fatal. Meanwhile, the "countess" has spent so much time with the policeman that a romance blooms between them. When they near the end of the voyage, he awkwardly proposes to her. She tells him her true identity, but he still wants to marry her. As Steve and Dan get ready to disembark, a steward overhears the grim truth and, when Joan comes looking for Dan, tells her. The two lovers part for the last time without letting on they know each other''s secret, and Joan collapses after Dan is out of sight. They had agreed to meet again on New Year''s Eve, a month later. At the appointed time and place, a bartender is startled when two glasses on the bar break with no one around.'
'action','First Mate Woolf Barstow is a corrupt merchant marine officer crewing a cargo ship which sails the Manila-Singapore trade route. He and his henchmen intend to blow the vessel while it is off the coast of Luzon in order to collect the insurance premium.'
'comedy','In 1917, Stan (Stan Laurel) and Ollie (Oliver Hardy) are drafted into the American Expeditionary Force to fight in World War I. Their ineptitude during basic training antagonizes the drill sergeant and they are assigned to kitchen duties. They misunderstand the cook''s instructions and empty the garbage cans into the general''s private dining room. The cook (George Marshall), who is thrown in the stockade with them, curses their "snitching" and threatens them with violence after they are released. They escape his wrath when they are shipped to the trenches in France. Serving close to the front line, they befriend soldier Eddie Smith, who receives a Dear John letter from his wife. When Eddie is killed in action, the boys determine to rescue Eddie''s daughter (Jacquie Lyn) from her brutal foster father and deliver her to Eddie''s parents. They distinguish themselves in combat by losing control of a tank and accidentally forcing a German platoon into the open. After the Armistice, Stan and Ollie venture to New York City to retrieve the girl and look for Eddie''s parents. Using the city telephone directory, the task proves both monumental and problematic as the boys blindly attempt to visit each Smith until they find the grandparents. After taking punches from an annoyed prizefighter and disrupting a society wedding, they resort to telephoning first. While operating their lunch wagon, the boys are approached by an unpleasant civil servant (Charles Middleton) who demands Eddie''s child so that she can be placed in an orphanage. The boys refuse, and the man says he will return with the police to have the boys arrested. They try to secure a loan with their lunch wagon to finance their escape to another city, but the banker smirks that he''d have to be unconscious to make such a deal. While laughing, he topples a bust onto his own head and knocks himself out. Taking this as approval, the boys take what they need from the bank vault. Tailed to their apartment by the police, the boys unsuccessfully try to hide Eddie''s daughter in a dumbwaiter. The police bring the three of them to the banker for identification, and it is discovered that he is the Smith they had been seeking. Following a happy reunion, the banker drops the charges and invites them as his guests for dinner. The cook storms out of the kitchen to tell his boss that he will not adjust the service on a moment''s notice, and recognizes Laurel and Hardy as the "snitches". The cook chases them with a kitchen knife.'
'thriller','After becoming involved in a killing, Kiddo gets on board Boyton''s ship. When he learns what happened he dumps her on a South Sea island. Tom Brian marries her, and when Boynton returns he''s furious (he wanted to marry her). When Boyton is killed Kiddo is accused of the crime and even Tom thinks she''s guilty.'
'western','Dick Barstow owns a horse ranch. When he comes upon a traveling salesman, Carry-All Roach, and his grandson, Bud, being harassed by Chet Jarvis, he intervenes, breaking up the incident. He invites the salesman to stay at his ranch to recover from the incident. Over dinner, Barstow and Roach become friendly, and when Roach learns that Barstow needs $1,500 to get himself out of a financial jam, he loans him the money. The next day Barstow goes to pay off his debt, which is to the father of Jean Morgan, his girlfriend. Returning to his ranch, he finds Roach by the road, dead. When he reports the murder to the local sheriff, he falls under immediate suspicion of having robbed and murdered Roach, since there is no proof that Roach loaned him the money with which he paid off Mr. Morgan. Intending to prove his innocence, Barstow evades incarceration. He returns to the site of the murder, where he finds a distinctive piece of a boot, which he recognizes as having belonged to Jarvis. Now suspecting Jarvis of the murder, Barstow heads to Jarvis'' motel room to search for evidence. There, he uncovers Roach''s empty wallet. Barstow rides back to his ranch, where Jarvis is attempting to claim that he is Bud''s legal guardian. When confronted with the empty wallet, it is further discovered that Jarvis has a military medal of Roach''s which he used to carry in his wallet. Revealed as the murderer, Jarvis attempts to flee, but is captured by Barstow. Returning to his ranch, Barstow and Jean cement their relationship, and state their intention to raise the young Bud.'
'comedy','Paris plumber Elmer Tuttle is enlisted by socialite Patricia Alden to help make her lover Tony Lagorce jealous. With the help of his friend Julius J. McCracken and through the high society contacts he has made through Patricia, Elmer hopes to find financing for his latest invention, a pistol with a range-finding light. Comic complications ensue when Elmer''s effort to interest a military leader is misconstrued as an assassination attempt.'
'crime thriller','London bank clerk William Marble (Charles Laughton) is deeply in debt. When his boss learns of a lawsuit for an overdue bill, he warns Marble that he will be dismissed if he cannot settle the matter quickly. Then, Marble is visited by a rich nephew whom he has not seen in many years, James Medland (Ray Milland). All night, Marble tries to borrow money from him, having received a financial tip that could solve all his financial troubles. However, Medland is not interested. Driven to desperation, Marble poisons his nephew and buries the body in the back yard. With the dead man''s money, Marble speculates on margin and makes £30,000, a large sum that enables him to retire. However, fear of his crime being discovered makes him consistently nervous and irritable. His wife Annie (Dorothy Peterson) knows something is wrong, but wrongly guesses he has embezzled from the bank. To relieve his nervous tension, he sends Annie and their daughter Winnie (Maureen O''Sullivan) away on a three-week vacation. While they are gone, he has an affair with Madame Collins (Verree Teasdale), a local shopowner. Winnie finds out when she returns a day early and discovers Collins in the house, but keeps quiet about it. Despite their new financial wealth, troubles continue to grow for the Marble family. Annie finally figures out what her husband has done, but stands by him. Winnie becomes a bit of a snob, consorting with a higher social class of people and sneering at her parents. When she runs away one night, Annie chases after her in the rain and becomes very ill. However, under Marble''s loving care, she begins to recover. Then Madame Collins shows up and blackmails Marble into giving her some money. Annie overhears and commits suicide with some of the same cyanide used to kill Medland. Marble is convicted for her murder. When Winnie visits on the day of his execution, Marble reassures her that he did not kill Annie, but says that he is nonetheless at peace with his fate. He is convinced he is paying a bill that was only deferred.'
'mystery','Gwen Parker (Mae Clarke) meets her former boyfriend Philip Seymour (Donald Cook) at the local aquarium and asks him for some money so she can leave her husband, stockbroker Gerald Parker. However, Mr. Parker receives an anonymous telephone call tipping him off to the rendezvous. When he confronts the pair, Seymour knocks him out with a punch. As there are no witnesses to the altercation, he hides the unconscious man in the room behind an exhibit. Schoolteacher Hildegarde Withers (Edna May Oliver) takes her class on a field trip to the aquarium. Shortly after tripping up fleeing pickpocket "Chicago" Lew (though he gets away), she loses her hatpin; one of her students finds it. Then Miss Withers sees Parker''s now-dead body falling into a pool housing a penguin. Police Inspector Oscar Piper (James Gleason) arrives and uncovers several suspects: the widow and Seymour; Bertrand Hemingway (Clarence Wilson), the head of the aquarium, who had financial dealings with the deceased; Chicago Lew, found near the scene; and even Miss Withers herself, as it is later determined that her hatpin was driven through the man''s right ear into the brain. Bystander and lawyer Barry Costello (Robert Armstrong) catches Gwen Parker when she faints, and acquires a client when she is taken in for questioning. Seymour confesses to protect Mrs. Parker, but Miss Withers does not believe him. She convinces Piper to notify the press that the murder was committed with a thrust through the left ear. Later, Costello passes along a message from Chicago Lew, in which he claims to know the identity of the killer. However, when Piper and Miss Withers go to see him at the jail, they find him dead from hanging. Costello concocts a way in which Seymour could have escaped from his nearby cell using a duplicate key (which is found), strangled Lew, and hanged him with wire without entering Lew''s cell. At the murder trial of Philip Seymour and Gwen Parker, while questioning Miss Withers, Costello slips up, showing that he knew that Gerald Parker was killed via the right ear. The motive is that he is Gwen Parker''s current lover. When Gwen Parker is released, the waiting Seymour slaps her in the face, to the amusement of Piper and Miss Withers. Piper then unexpectedly asks Miss Withers to marry him. She accepts. (However, in the sequel, Murder on the Blackboard, they are still single.)'
'mystery','Ricardo Cortez plays Gary Curtis (alias Farnsbarns), a PI in New York who is known for skirting the law. Curtis is sent to get some letters from Jenny Wren (Karen Morley), who is a courtesan. Wren tells Priam Andes (H. B. Warner) to have some of her former lovers come to a gathering at Crestwood. At the gathering, she tells her former lovers that she is leaving but wants money from all of them, and explains that a boy she was trifling with committed suicide. Later that night Jenny Wren is killed. A road washed out keeps everyone at Crestwood. Now Gary Curtis must find out who the murderer is before the police arrive and pin it on him.'
'comedy','The Phantom President tells the fictional story of American presidential candidates, based on the novel by George F. Worts. A colorless stiff candidate for President is replaced in public appearances by a charismatic medicine show pitchman.'
'drama','A once popular actor, Nat Barry (played by Henry B. Walthall), is a has-been because of his alcoholism. The legendary film star is forced by necessity to take a job selling patent medicine at a traveling sideshow dressed in a costume as Abraham Lincoln. Having trouble staying sober, he is arrested and taken before a "police court" for drunken disorder. His teenage son, Junior Barry (played by Leon Janney), pleads on Barry''s behalf and Judge Robert Webster (played by Edmund Breese) grants him a reprieve. Junior is determined to see his father make good again, vowing to keep him off the bottle and on the screen. He attempts to get bit parts for Barry, but he has trouble delivering his lines on the movie set for the compassionate director, Henry Field (played by King Baggot).'
'drama','When a traveling circus arrives in a small town, trapeze artist Polly Fisher (Marion Davies) is outraged to find that clothing has been added to posters of her to hide her moderately skimpy costume. She goes to see the man she mistakenly holds responsible, Reverend John Hartley (Clark Gable). He denies being the censor, but their relationship gets off to a rocky start. When a heckler distracts Polly during her performance, she falls 50 feet (15 m) to the ground. John Hartley has her brought to his nearby house. The doctor advises against moving her. As she recuperates, Polly and John fall in love and marry. She willingly gives up the circus for him. John''s uncle, Bishop James Northcott (C. Aubrey Smith), questions the wisdom of the union, and John''s congregation rebels at having an ex-circus performer as their minister''s wife. As a result, he is fired and cannot obtain another church position because of his marriage. Seeing how miserable her husband is, Polly goes to plead for the bishop''s help, but he remains unmoved. When she tells Northcott she is willing to give John up, the clergyman tells her that a divorced minister is just as unacceptable. Polly sees only one way out - as a widower, John could return to the church. She pretends that she has tired of her husband and returns to the circus, planning to have a fatal "accident". However, Northcott has a change of heart. When he goes to tell the couple, Polly has already left. Northcott guesses what she intends to do. He and John speed to the circus'' next stop and arrive just in time to save Polly.'
'comedy, drama','Maggie Warren (Dressler) inherited a family bank during the Depression and Lizzie Praskins (Moran) is one of her biggest depositors. Maggie’s son John is engaged to Lizzies''s daughter Helen. All kinds of farces happen when the would-be mothers-in-law battle for setting the wedding''s protocol including their different preferences of choosing the pastor to perform the ceremony. As the story goes on, Lizzie has a panic attack based on rumors about the bank going to belly-up. She hysterically withdraws all her money causing all other customers in the bank to panic and they in return take out their money. The Warren family bank is forced to close. Maggie’s naive son gets swindled out of his mother’s bonds. As farces go, at the end the swindlers are caught and Maggie’s matriarchal resourcefulness with her wised-up son gets the bank solvent again, and the two matriarchal families are bonded with mirthful resolutions. [2][3][4]'
'comedy, drama','Joan Gordon, a New York torch singer who has been performing since age 15, has left her wealthy criminal boyfriend, Eddie Fields, for upstanding citizen Don Leslie. However, Don''s father has found out about her relationship with Eddie; she and Don break off their engagement, and she decides to leave town rather than return to Eddie. In Montreal, she changes her name and resumes performing; not long thereafter, one of Eddie''s men recognizes her and informs his boss. Unwilling to return to him, she trades places with her hotel''s maid, Emily, who had used Joan''s picture when corresponding with a North Dakota farmer in search of a mail-order bride. Offering the maid $100 (about 7 weeks'' wages) for the farmer''s address, Joan sets out to become the wife of Jim Gilson, with only a vague idea of all the hardships of farm life during the height of the Great Depression. Jim and Joan''s relationship gets off to a rocky start; on their first night, she rejects his advances and forces him to sleep elsewhere. In the morning, she apologizes but he keeps his distance. Over time she falls in love with him, but he remains aloof. Meanwhile, he''s informed that he''ll lose his land if he can''t pay his overdue mortgage. He has developed a great strain of wheat and is sure it will bring a profit, but he has no way to keep foreclosure at bay long enough to plant and harvest a crop. A neighboring farmer, Bull McDowell, offers to buy Jim''s land in exchange for Joan''s company, but Jim is unwilling to make such a bargain and thereby makes an enemy of Bull. A little later, Joan—who has become a very capable farmer''s wife—visits a neighbor who just gave birth with only her adolescent daughter by her side. Joan cleans the home, prepares food, turns an old dress into diapers, and calms the frightened daughter, Sarah Tipton. She braves a snowstorm to return home, where Jim has taken in a man who lost his way in the storm—Eddie. She pretends not to know him, but Eddie quickly tries to take her with him. Jim, angry at Joan because of her complicated past, and because he''s jealous, though he can''t yet admit that he cares about her, tells her to go with Eddie. She refuses and later asks Eddie privately for a loan to save Jim''s land. The loan, which Jim thinks is an extension from the bank, enables them to stay on the farm until after the harvest. She continues to stand by him, but he remains distant. Then one night Bull torches part of the harvested-but-not-sold crop, and Joan and Jim fight to save it. Joan is injured, but they succeed—and her determination and dedication finally break through Jim''s reserve.'
'comedy','Always looking for an angle, "Knucks" McGloin purchases the mortgage on Canarsie College and then turns its football team''s fortunes around by hiring thugs and hooligans as players and nightclub dancers as cheerleaders. For the biggest game of the season, almost everything goes wrong. Canarsie''s quarterback double-crosses his teammates and coach Brick Gilligan (a former Sing Sing inmate) by revealing the team''s plays to the opponents. Guns are drawn on both sides, a bomb is tossed into the middle of a huddle and explosions destroy the cars belonging to both of the teams'' owners as soon as the game ends.'
'drama','A westbound ship en route to Apia, Samoa, is temporarily stranded at nearby Pago Pago due to a possible cholera outbreak on board. Among the passengers are Alfred Davidson, a self-righteous missionary, his wife, and Sadie Thompson, a prostitute. Thompson passes the time partying and drinking with the American Marines stationed on the island. Sergeant Tim O''Hara, nicknamed by Sadie as "Handsome", falls in love with her. Her wild behavior soon becomes more than the Davidsons can stand and Mr. Davidson confronts Sadie, resolving to save her soul. When she dismisses his offer, Davidson has the Governor order her deported to San Francisco, California, where she is wanted for an unspecified crime (for which she says she was framed). She begs Davidson to allow her to remain on the island a few more days – her plan is to flee to Sydney, Australia. During a heated argument with Davidson, she experiences a religious conversion and agrees to return to San Francisco and the jail sentence awaiting her there. The evening before she is to leave, Sergeant O''Hara asks Sadie to marry him and offers to hide her until the Sydney boat sails, but she refuses. Later, while native drums beat, the repressed Davidson rapes Sadie. The next morning he is found dead on the beach – a suicide. Davidson''s hypocrisy and betrayal cause Thompson to return to her old self and she goes off to Sydney with O''Hara to start a new life.'
'drama','The highly fictionalized story takes place in the Russian Empire during the last years of the reign of Czar Nicholas II (Ralph Morgan) and the Czarina Alexandra (Ethel Barrymore). Reform-minded Prince Paul (John Barrymore) has long been concerned about the plight of the common people and knows a revolution is brewing. Prince Alexei, heir to the throne, is loved by the people but has hemophilia, and a slight fall turns out to be life-threatening. When royal physician Dr. Remezov (Edward Arnold) is powerless to stop the boy''s bleeding, Princess Natasha (Diana Wynyard), Alexandra''s lady-in-waiting and Paul''s fiancee, recommends Rasputin (Lionel Barrymore) as a healer. He convinces the frantic Empress that he has been sent by God to cure the child. Left alone with Alexei, he hypnotizes the boy and relieves his agony but also gradually makes Alexei a slave to his will. With the influence he now wields over the relieved parents, Rasputin begins replacing those loyal to them with his own men. He is greatly aided when the head of the secret police (Henry Kolker), fearful of losing his job over his failure to prevent the assassination of a nobleman close to the Czar, turns to him for help. With police dossiers at his disposal, Rasputin is able to use blackmail to increase his power even further. Prince Paul fears that Rasputin''s actions will bring about the downfall of the empire. However, even Natasha believes in Rasputin. She warns him that Paul is going to try to kill him. Paul shoots him, but Rasputin is unharmed: he has taken the precaution of wearing a hidden metal breastplate. Nicholas forces Paul to resign his position when he admits he tried to assassinate the man. When Germany issues an ultimatum demanding that Russia cease mobilizing its army over the crisis between Austria-Hungary and Serbia, Nicholas and his advisers are divided. Rasputin convinces him to reject the ultimatum, leading to World War I. Finally, Rasputin begins to make subtle advances on Grand Duchess Maria (Jean Parker), Alexandra''s daughter. When Natasha finds out, she becomes furious and shouts that she will go to the Empress. Rasputin overpowers her and puts her in a deep trance. The Empress fortuitously enters the room at that moment, enabling Natasha to recover her wits and tell what she saw. When he is unable to shake Alexandra''s faith in Natasha, Rasputin boasts of how he is now effectively Czar. In despair, the Empress sends for Paul. He assures her that he knows what to do. At a big party where Rasputin is guest of honor, he recognizes the servant who has been bringing him his favorite traditional Tobolsk cakes all night; he used to work for Paul. Immediately suspicious, Rasputin has the house searched. They find Paul and Dr. Remezov. Rasputin is eager to dispatch his most implacable enemy himself; he takes Paul into the cellar at gunpoint. Once they are alone, Paul taunts Rasputin, telling him the cakes were filled with poison. He then leaps at Rasputin and beats him into unconsciousness. However, Rasputin refuses to die. Covered with blood, he rises and walks toward Paul, shouting that if he dies, Russia will die. Paul finally drags him out into the snow and throws him into the river to drown. Immediately, Alexei is freed from his hypnotic trance and hugs his mother. Nicholas is forced to exile Paul, as Rasputin''s minions are still in power. However, the old charlatan''s last prophecy comes true, as the Czar is overthrown and shot with his entire family by the Bolsheviks.'
'drama','On a rubber plantation in French Indochina during the monsoon season, the plantation''s owner/manager Dennis Carson (Gable), a prostitute named Vantine (Harlow), and Barbara Willis (Astor), the wife of an engineer named Gary Willis (Gene Raymond) are involved in a love triangle. Carson abandons an informal relationship with Vantine to pursue Barbara, but he has a change of heart and returns to Vantine. Vantine arrives at the plantation first, on the lam from the authorities in Saigon. She displays an easy comfort in the plantation''s harsh environment, wisecracks continually, and begins playfully teasing Carson as soon as she meets him. He resists her charm at first, but soon gives in, and they quickly develop a friendly, casual relationship in which they tease each other and pretend to be too tough for affection. One of their favorite games is to call each other "Fred" and "Lily", as though neither can be bothered to remember the other''s name. However, Carson loses interest in Vantine when the Willises arrive. Gary Willis is a young, inexperienced engineer, and his wife Barbara is a classy, ladylike beauty. Carson is immediately attracted to Barbara, and, after sending Gary on a lengthy surveying trip, he spends the next week seducing Barbara as Vantine watches jealously. He successfully persuades Barbara to leave Gary for him but recants after visiting Gary in the swamp and learning how deeply he loves Barbara. Carson has also seen that Barbara is unsuited for the primitive conditions on the plantation, as is Gary, and he has a painful memory of his own mother''s death on the plantation when he was a boy. He decides to send both of them back to more civilized surroundings. At the story''s climax, Carson turns Barbara''s feelings against himself by pretending that he never loved her, at which point she shoots him. This provides a cover for Vantine and Carson to save Barbara''s marriage and reputation by insisting to Gary that Barbara rejected Carson''s advances. The film ends after Carson has sent the Willises away, with Vantine reading bedtime stories to him as he recuperates from the gunshot wound, and he playfully tries to fondle her.'
'comedy','Lilian "Lil" Andrews (Jean Harlow) is a young woman, living in Ohio, who will do anything to improve herself. She seduces her wealthy boss William "Bill" Legendre Jr. (Chester Morris) and cleverly breaks up his marriage with his loving wife Irene (Leila Hyams). Irene reconsiders and tries to reconcile with Bill, only to find he has married Lil the previous day. However, Lil finds herself shunned by high society, including Bill''s father, Will Legendre, Sr. (Lewis Stone), because of her lower-class origins and homewrecking. When Charles B. Gaerste (Henry Stephenson), a nationally known coal tycoon and the main customer of the Legendres'' company, visits the city, Lil thinks she has found a way to force her way into the highest social circles. She seduces Charles, then blackmails him into throwing a party at her mansion, knowing that no one would dare offend him by not showing up. It seems like a social coup for Lil, until her hairdresser friend and confidante Sally (Una Merkel) points out that all the guests have left early to attend a surprise party for Irene (who lives across the street). Humiliated, she decides to move to New York City, even if it means a temporary separation from her husband. Will Sr. finds Lil''s handkerchief at Gaerste''s place and correctly guesses what Lil has done. He shows his evidence to his son, who hires detectives to watch Lil. They find that she is conducting not one, but two affairs, with Charles and his handsome French chauffeur Albert (Charles Boyer). Bill shows Charles damning photographs. When Lil learns that Charles has found out about her, she returns to Bill, only to find him with Irene. Furious, she shoots him, but he survives and refuses to have her charged with attempted murder. However, he does divorce her, and remarries Irene. Two years later, he sees her again, at a racetrack in Paris, in the company of an aged Frenchman. He discreetly hides Irene''s binoculars. In the final scene, Lil and her elderly companion get into a limousine driven by Albert.'
'comedy','New York City socialite Caroline Grannard and her wealthy stockbroker husband Greg seemingly have a happy marriage until she learns about his affair with Allison Adair. When she confronts him, he confesses he wants a divorce. While en route to an assignment in Romania, novelist and war correspondent Julian Tierney, long in love with Caroline, meets her in Paris after her divorce is finalized and asks her to marry him. Although she insists she no longer has feelings for her ex-husband, she asks Julian for time to consider his proposal, and he departs without her. Caroline returns to the United States and discovers Greg and Alison are expecting a baby. Malbro, who has been trying to entice Julian into a romantic relationship without much success, advises Caroline he is planning to travel to China and India in hopes of forgetting her. Caroline tells Julian she loves him as well and they spend the night together. When Allison learns about their tryst, she tries to create a scandal but is stopped by Malbro and Greg. On their way home, the couple become involved in a heated discussion in the car and are involved in a crash in which Allison is killed and Greg is injured severely. When Caroline visits Greg in the hospital, he begs, "Don''t leave me." His doctor tells her the hope of a reconciliation will help Greg recover faster. She tells him, "I won''t leave you Greg." When Caroline sees Julian, she tells him that she cannot leave with him because she must take care of Greg. However, she arranges for a judge, hospitalized in a nearby room, to marry her and Julian before he departs for the Far East, and she promises to join him there once Greg has recuperated fully.'
'western','John Drury (John Wayne) is passing through when townsfolk are about to kill Duke, a horse they believe to be dangerous. He convinces them to reprieve the animal if he can ride it. He does, earning the gratitude of Ruth Gaunt (Ruth Hall). He then volunteers to deal with an outlaw known as the Hawk who has been terrorizing the area. Solid citizen Henry Simms (Frank Hagney) volunteers to guide him to the Hawk''s territory. But Simms is actually the Hawk and he ties Drury to a tree, leaving him to die. Simms then leads a raid on a ranch, kills a man and plants Drury''s harmonica at the scene. With the help of his horse Duke, Drury manages to free himself. However, a group of vigilantes, believing that he is the Hawk, accuse him of murder and take him to face a hanging judge. Fortunately, Ruth shows up, with the news that a wounded witness has regained consciousness and confirmed Drury''s claim that Simms is the real bandit. Simms'' men burst in and hold everyone at gunpoint. Simms takes Ruth with him to his hideout, but Drury manages to escape and follow them. The posse overpowers Simms'' henchmen and captures the rest of the gang. Simms and Drury fight; when Drury is distracted by the arrival of help, Simms knocks him out and tries to flee, only to run into the deadly hooves of an enraged Duke.'
'western','Buck Randall (Buck Jones), a carefree cowboy whose popularity with the local saloon girls becomes the talk of the town. The new marshal, Joseph Slyde (Russell Simpson), gets on Buck''s bad side by enforcing a "no gun" rule. Buck returns the favor by falling in love with the marshal''s mistreated wife, Mary (Mary Doran), and she asks her husband for a divorce so she can marry Buck.[2]'
'drama','When stage actress Judy Carroll testifies on behalf of her former lover, accused embezzler Al Howard, she loses custody of Elizabeth, an orphan she had planned to adopt. Her devoted manager Antonie "Tony" de Sola urges her to travel to Europe with her alcoholic mother Snooks to alleviate her emotional pain. While there she reads a play entitled Rockabye, which eerily resembles recent events in her life. Despite Tony''s qualms, she is determined to star in a Broadway production. Playwright Jacob Van Riker Pell is certain the sophisticated Judy will be unable to portray convincingly his heroine, a tough girl from Second Avenue, until she confesses she was raised there herself. The two hit it off and Judy convinces Tony to produce the play. On the verge of divorce, Jake proposes he and Judy wed as soon as he is free. Jake fails to appear at the opening night party for Rockabye, and his mother tells Judy her daughter-in-law has just had a baby and asks her to forget her son. When Jake finally arrives and assures her he still wants to marry her, Judy insists he return to his wife and newborn child. Devastated, she is comforted by Tony, who finally reveals his feelings for her.'
'drama, crime','In 1920s Chicago, Italian immigrant Antonio "Tony" Camonte acts on the orders of Italian mafioso John "Johnny" Lovo and kills "Big" Louis Costillo, the leading crime boss of the city''s South Side. Johnny then takes control of the South Side with Tony as his key lieutenant, selling large amounts of illegal beer to speakeasies and muscling in on bars run by rival outfits. However, Johnny repeatedly warns Tony not to mess with the Irish gangs led by O''Hara, who runs the North Side. Tony soon starts ignoring these orders, shooting up bars belonging to O''Hara, and attracting the attention of the police and rival gangsters. Johnny realizes that Tony is out of control and has ambitions to take his position. Meanwhile, Tony pursues Johnny''s girlfriend Poppy with increasing confidence. At first, she is dismissive of him but pays him more attention as his reputation rises. At one point, she visits his "gaudy" apartment where he shows her his view of an electric billboard advertising Cook''s Tours, which features the slogan that has inspired him: "The World is Yours." Tony eventually decides to declare war and take over the North Side. He sends the coin flipping Guino Rinaldo, one of his best men and also his close friend, to kill O''Hara in a florist''s shop that he uses as his base. This brings heavy retaliation from the North Side gangs, now led by Gaffney and armed with Thompson submachine guns—a weapon that instantly captures Tony''s dark imagination. Tony leads his own forces to destroy the North Side gangs and take over their market, even to the point of impersonating police officers to gun down several rivals in a garage. Tony also kills Gaffney as he makes a strike at a bowling alley. Johnny believes that his protégé is trying to take over, and he arranges for Tony to be assassinated while driving in his car. Tony manages to escape this attack, and he and Guino kill Johnny, leaving Tony as the undisputed boss of the city. Tony''s actions have provoked a public outcry, and the police are slowly closing in. Then he sees his beloved sister Francesca ("Cesca") with Guino, and kills his friend in a jealous rage—before the couple can inform him of their secret marriage. His sister runs out distraught and tells the police what he has done. The police move to arrest Tony for Guino''s murder, and Tony holes up in his house and prepares to shoot it out. Cesca comes back, planning to kill him, but ends up helping him to fight the police. Moments later, however, she is killed by a stray bullet. As the apartment fills with tear gas, Tony leaves down the stairs, and the police confront him. Tony pleads for his life, but then makes a break for it, only to be gunned down by the police. Outside, the electric billboard blazes "The World is Yours."'
'drama','When Russian revolutionaries overrun his country estate, Baron Nikita Krasnoff (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.) barely escapes with his life by killing one of them and switching clothes. His story is suspicious, so the household servant Tanyusha (Nancy Carroll) is found and brought to identify him. To his surprise, she does not betray him, and they are released. He is even allowed to "loot" one of his own possessions, a sword with the fabulous Krasnoff pearl necklace hidden in a secret compartment in the scabbard. Krasnoff sets off for Turkey; Tanyusha accompanies him, much to his puzzlement. To get past a checkpoint, they hide in a car. When they are discovered, Krasnoff offers to pay, exchanging a single strand of pearls at a time as their journey continues. When the couple falls asleep, the greedy car owner and his driver rob them and force them out of the vehicle. However, when the crooks try to run another checkpoint, they are killed by the guards. Krasnoff and Tanyusha continue on foot. The first night, Krasnoff tries to take advantage of his companion, but when she resists his advances, he desists. Eventually, they reach Constantinople, where Krasnoff gets a job as a dishwasher, while Tanyusha scrubs floors at a hospital. Krasnoff marries Tanyusha. One day, restaurant patron Vera Zimina (Lilyan Tashman) is astonished to find her ex-lover Krasnoff working as a busboy. She enlists him for a moneymaking scheme. Tired of his wretched existence, Krasnoff goes off with Vera, telling his wife that he will send her money. However, his letters are intercepted by the landlady. Vera has befriended the wealthy Mr. Murphy (Guy Kibbee). Krasnoff is assigned to romance Murphy''s daughter Marjorie (Sheila Terry). Vera then gives Krasnoff an excellent imitation of the Krasnoff pearls to sell to the trusting Murphys. When he proves reluctant, she shows him a Turkish proclamation announcing that all unemployed Russians are to be deported back to the Soviet Union. It does not have the effect she intended though. Krasnoff, afraid that his wife will be sent back, confesses the truth to Marjorie and rushes off to find Tanyusha. He cannot find her and is picked up by the Turkish police for deportation. He is reunited with Tanyusha, and together, they board the ship taking them to a grim future.'
'adventure, drama','In 1931, China is embroiled in a civil war. Friends of British Captain Donald "Doc" Harvey (Clive Brook) envy him because the fabulously notorious Shanghai Lily (Marlene Dietrich) is a fellow passenger on the express train from Peking to Shanghai. Because the name means nothing to him, they inform him that she is a "coaster" or "woman who lives by her wits along the China coast" – in other words, a courtesan. On the journey, Harvey encounters Lily, who turns out to be his former lover, Madeline. Five years earlier, she had played a trick on Harvey to gauge his love for her, but it backfired and he left her. She frankly informs him that, in the interim, "It took more than one man to change my name to Shanghai Lily." When Lily makes it clear that she still cares deeply for him, it becomes apparent that his feelings also have not changed when she inadvertently sees the watch she gave him with her photograph still in it. Among the other passengers are fellow coaster Hui Fei (Anna May Wong), Lily''s companion; Christian missionary Mr. Carmichael (Lawrence Grant), who at first condemns the two "fallen women"; inveterate gambler Sam Salt (Eugene Pallette); opium dealer Eric Baum (Gustav von Seyffertitz); boarding house keeper Mrs. Haggerty (Louise Closser Hale); French officer Major Lenard (Emile Chautard) and a mysterious Eurasian, Henry Chang (Warner Oland). Chinese government soldiers board and search the train and apprehend a high-ranking rebel agent. Chang then makes his way to a telegraph office and sends a coded message. Later, the train is stopped and taken over by the rebel army and its powerful warlord, who turns out to be Chang. Chang begins to question the passengers, looking for someone important enough to exchange for his valued aide. He finds what he wants in Harvey, who is on his way to perform brain surgery on the Governor-General of Shanghai. Chang offers to take Shanghai Lily to his palace, but she claims she has reformed. When Chang refuses to accept her answer, Harvey breaks in and knocks him down. Because Chang needs Harvey alive, he swallows (but does not forget) the insult. Chang then has Hui Fei brought to him in his quarters, where he forces himself on her. The government releases Chang''s man, but Chang decides to blind Harvey for his insolence. Out of love, Lily offers herself in return for Harvey''s safe release. Harvey remains unaware of the danger that he is in and of Lily''s reason for going with Chang. Chang is stabbed to death by Hui Fei who tells Harvey what has transpired. Finding Lily, the trio boards the train and departs before the body is discovered. The missionary Carmichael, trusting his instincts, gets Lily to reveal the truth about saving Harvey. She insists that he not enlighten Harvey because love must go hand in hand with faith. When the train finally reaches Shanghai safely, Lily offers Harvey her love unconditionally but demands the same in return. Harvey finally breaks down and embraces her.'
'drama, romance','Waitress Kitty Lane and wealthy David Livingston fall in love. However his overly protective mother Helen does not approve and does everything she can to break them up. She has her friend Judge Forbes first try bribery; when that fails, he arranges to have her jailed on a bogus morals charge. Meanwhile, Mrs. Livingston convinces her son that Kitty took the $5000 bribe. As the years pass, Kitty becomes a successful showgirl, with numerous admirers, while David is a doctor. When their paths cross again, their love is rekindled, though Kitty is skeptical of David''s resolve in the face of his mother''s unwavering opposition. David finally convinces her to marry him. Alarmed, Mrs. Livingston goes to see Kitty. She begs her to break off the engagement, fearing her son''s career will be ruined, but Kitty is unmoved. In desperation, the distraught mother pulls out a gun. Kitty manages to take it away from the confused woman, but is touched by her pleas. When David shows up, Mrs. Livingston hides while Kitty puts on an act, pretending that she only agreed to marry him to get back at his mother. David is finally convinced, but then a repentant Mrs. Livingston stops him from leaving and confesses the truth.'
'drama','Kansas farmer Yates Martin (Edward G. Robinson) uproots his uncomplaining wife Sarah (Aline MacMahon) and baby son to 1876 Colorado in search of gold. He buys a claim, then immediately abandons it when two prospectors tell him of a strike in Leadville. Taking Sarah''s prudent advice, he sets up a store there. To her dismay, however, he stakes miners in return for partnerships in their diggings. Just as the Martins run out of money and decide to return to Kansas, prospectors Rische and Hook show up with the news that they have struck it rich, not with gold but with silver, and Yates has a third share of it. Yates spends his new-found riches with great abandon, purchasing, among other things, a claim from a seemingly downtrodden miner for $50,000, over his suspicious wife''s objections. He is asked to run for Lieutenant Governor of Colorado. When his foreman informs him that the claim he bought is worthless, Yates tells him to keep on digging, at least until the election is over, so that he will not look like a fool. As it turns out, not only does he win the election, the claim yields a lode even richer than his first. Yates decides to build Denver an opulent opera house. As he is inspecting its construction, he meets the alluring Lily Owens (Bebe Daniels), who becomes his mistress. At the grand opening of the opera house, Yates'' guest of honor is none other than General Ulysses S. Grant. Yates sets his sights higher, using his money to take the vacated seat of a U.S. senator. He divorces a heartbroken Sarah and marries Lily in Washington, DC, with the President as a wedding guest. However, when the president decides to put the country on the gold standard, the price of silver plummets, and Yates loses everything except the Matchless mine, which is not worth working at the current price. He declines Sarah''s offer of money. A friend obtains the post of postmaster of Denver for him, but Yates collapses and dies penniless.'
'mystery','A millionaire is murdered at a séance at a fortune-teller’s home. Detective Capt Herbert Devlin, played by Jack Mulhall, and Detective Watkins investigate the crime only to discover all attendees have a motive.[1]'
'drama','Doris Blake (Carole Lombard) works as a top model for Louis in a very chic New York City dress shop. Her boyfriend Jimmie Martin (Chester Morris) is a mechanic. When he comes to pick her up, he talks about marriage, but she argues they both have no money. At a picnic, they quarrel again, and he breaks up with her. Later, Doris meets the very rich, very eccentric Claire Kinkaid (Adrienne Ames) at the shop. To Doris''s surprise, Claire does not much care for her own lavish lifestyle. Claire asks her if she has a boyfriend; when Doris tells her they broke up, Claire tells her that''s the only thing she wants. Jimmie is standing outside. When Doris and Claire step out, he pretends to be fixing a fancy car, which turns out to be Claire''s. When he wishes he could drive it, she invites him to do just that. Then, she offers him a job as her chauffeur. He accepts because he wants a change of scenery, far away from Doris. Later, Jimmie drives Claire to a charity fashion show, where Doris is one of the models (though Jimmie has to leave before she goes on). Doris "borrows" a swimsuit and goes for a swim before the show. She meets Eric Nelson (Walter Byron). When he becomes too fresh and kisses her, Doris slaps him, twice, and swims away. Eric sees her modeling. At the end of the party, she meets his wife. Eric assures her they will be divorcing soon. On the way home, Claire proposes to Jimmie. He turns her down. Meanwhile, Eric gets Doris to go out with him night after night. Her father becomes fed up with her (innocent) involvement with a married man and throws her out. When Jimmie finds out, he tells Claire he is quitting. She inquires if it is because of the girl he cannot forget, then asks him again to marry her. This time, he accepts. When Doris reads in the newspaper about Jimmie and Claire''s wedding. she becomes upset. Though she had turned down jewelry from Eric, now she accepts his lavish gifts and spending on her. Doris acquires an unwanted admirer, Ridgeway, who has grown tired of Lil. Lil confides to her friend Doris that she is in love with Ridgeway, then takes poison. Jimmie runs into Doris at a restaurant. He lashes out at her verbally and stalks out. Then, Ridgeway shows up with the news that Eric has patched things up with his wife. Ridgeway gives her a check from Eric and makes it clear he expects to take Eric''s place. Doris tells him to get out. Jimmie tells Claire that seeing Doris has made him realize what he is, a kept man. They part amicably. Eric finds Doris working as a dressmaker and tells her that he has gotten a divorce. He asks her to marry him, but she turns him down. Just then, Jimmie''s dog finds her. Jimmie has struck out on his own in his own business. The couple reconcile.'
'drama','Bert "Speed" Condon (Richard Arlen) is the star of the "Speed Condon Flying Circus". The troupe of barnstorming pilots includes "Wild Bill" Adams (Harold Goodwin), Eddie Smith (Tom Douglas) and their manager, Alec "Ma" Dugan (Jack Oakie). Performing in small towns across the country, Speed and his friends are known for their stunt flying as much as giving "joy rides" for paying customers. Speed and Eddie try a dangerous mock "dog fight" that ends with Eddie''s death. A remorseful Speed quits flying and heads to Los Angeles on foot, finding work as a mechanic at the Beck Aircraft Company. The company secretary, Ruth Dunning (Virginia Bruce), is convinced that the new mechanic is hiding a secret. A budding romance is stymied by her suitor, pilot Jim Carmichael (Charles Starrett). His former manager, determined to find Speed, wants him to rejoin the barnstorming group. When he locates Speed, Alec finds that he is still working in aviation and is living at the local boardinghouse run by Eddie''s mother (Louise Closser Hale), who is unaware that Speed caused her son''s death. Eddie''s nephew Willie (Robert Coogan) is crazy about flying and wants to become a parachute jumper like others who perform at air shows. When Willie becomes accidentally trapped in the landing gear of an aircraft flown by Jim Carmichael, Speed realizes that he has to go up in another aircraft and free the young boy. After completing the daring aerial rescue, Speed finally is able to deal with his grief and guilt, and reveals to Mrs. Smith what happened to her son. Speed then asks Ruth out on a date for the dance that night, while Alec has to come to Willie''s rescue when the young daredevil parachutes from the boardinghouse roof.'
'comedy','In 1917, lifeguards Wilkie (Spencer Tracy) and Mitchell (George Cooper) who can not even swim, are trying to keep out of the war. When a man is drowning, U.S. Army Air Corps Sergeant Hogan (William Boyd) rescues the drowning man but they are quick to claim credit. When the pair go to a Red Cross benefit boxing match, they again encounter the sergeant, billed as "One Punch" Hogan but Wilkie surprisingly knocks him out, before sneaking out with Mitchell, as a crowd gathers. The two friends swear they will never join the Army but relent and later, wind up in uniform, shovelling manure. Determined to find a way out, Wilkie and Mitchell desert and head off to South America, hopping in a manure truck leaving the base. After stowing away on a ship, they find out they are on a troop ship with Army Air Corps pilots going to France. Wilkie and Mitchell pretend they want to fly and are sent to train at an American aviation field. Doing their best to not become pilots, while on guard duty, Wilkie competes with Sgt. Hogan for the attentions of Fifi (Yola d''Avril), a French performer. After a dustup at a nightclub, the two rivals make a quick exit, hiding in a car driven by Mary Way (Ann Dvorak). Startled by the men, she crashes, but all are unharmed. Wilkie and Hogan escort her to an inn for the evening. In the morning, Wilkie has breakfast with Mary and cons Hogan into fixing her car. Military police looking for the two and come and arrest them, as well as Mary thought to be a spy. Wilkie, Hogan and Mary escape in an aircraft, but land in enemy territory and are captured. Accidentally releasing two bombs, they bomb a German munitions depot. The Air Corps colonel (Billy Bevan) sends a squadron to rescue the trio, with Mitchell scaring the Germans by his inept maneuvers. After their rescue, the three heroes fly home but Wilkie again accidentally pulls the lever for the bomb release, this time bombing his own base.'
'drama','The film depicts the aspirations and lives of several people in the Seacoast National Bank Building. Among them is David Dwight, the womanizing bank owner who keeps his estranged wife, Ella, happy by paying her bills. His secretary Sarah wants him to get a divorce so they can marry.'
'romance','John Carteret (Leslie Howard) is a wealthy man with a huge estate. He was set to marry Moonyeen Clare (Norma Shearer), but on their wedding day she was accidentally killed during the wedding ceremony by her drunken and jealous ex-fiance Jeremy Wayne (Fredric March), who actually meant to kill John. John has spent the rest of his life in mourning. However, Moonyeen has kept in touch with him from the next life. He continues to live on the estate, and has a special place where he communicates with her spirit. His close friend Dr. Owens (O.P. Heggie) tells him of Moonyeen''s niece Kathleen, whose parents have drowned at sea. He begs John to adopt the child, and he does. Kathleen is five, but as she grows older she looks exactly like the dead Moonyeen (and is also played by Norma Shearer). Her childhood friend Willie (Ralph Forbes) wants to marry her, but she is interested in Kenneth Wayne (also played by Fredric March), whom she meets in unexpected and romantic circumstances. However, Kenneth is the son of Jeremy, Moonyeen''s killer, who disappeared and was never found. John refuses to let them marry and threatens to disinherit her. She leaves with Kenneth, but he sends her back again because he does not want to ruin her life. However, John has been deeply affected by the events and has lost his ability to communicate with his dead fiancee, who perceives his anger and hatred as having set up a barrier she cannot overcome. Kenneth enlists in the Army and is gone for four years, returning as a disabled war veteran. He hides his condition, claims he no longer cares for Kathleen, and plans to return to America. John finds out the truth from Dr. Owens. He sees that Kenneth really cares for Kathleen and is not like his wastrel father. He tells Kathleen, and she runs off to tell Kenneth she still cares for him. John sits down to play chess with Dr. Owens, but apparently dozes off. Amused, Dr. Owens leaves him so that he can take his nap. John, however, has actually died, and he is reunited with Moonyeen, just as Kathleen is heard returning with Kenneth.'
'drama, romance','Following the death of her mother, Selina Peake and her father, Simeon, move to Chicago, where she enrolls in finishing school. Her father is killed, leaving her penniless, and Selina''s friend, Julie Hemple, helps her find a job as a schoolteacher in a small Dutch community. Selina moves in with the Poole family and tutors their son Roelf. Selina eventually marries immigrant farmer, Pervus De Jong, and gives birth to Dirk , nicknamed "So Big", who becomes the primary focus of her life. When Pervus dies, Selina struggles to keep the farm afloat so she can afford to finance her son''s education, hoping he will become an architect. Dirk becomes involved with a married woman, who arranges for him to get a job as a bond salesman in her husband''s firm, making much more money than as an apprentice architect. Eventually he meets and falls in love with unconventional artist Dallas O''Mara, but she refuses to marry him because of his lack of ambition. Roelf, now a renowned sculptor, meets Dirk and, learning Selina is his mother, reunites with his former tutor. She is pleased to know her influence helped mold Roelf''s character, even as she accepts her own son''s weaknesses and disappointments.'
'comedy','Prof. Post (Buster Keaton) is a shy Classics professor at Potts College, who has lived a sheltered life and has little experience of life outside of academia. Feeling that the professor should see more of the real world, his assistant tricks the professor into thinking that he has inherited $750,000, allowing the professor to leave academia and see the world. Boarding a train bound for New York City, Prof. Post encounters James (Jimmy Durante), the manager of a dancing troupe that has an engagement in the backwater town of Fish''s Switch. The professor becomes infatuated with one of the dancers, Pansy Peets (Ruth Selwyn), and accidentally alights at Fish''s Switch when attempting to learn her name. He attends a performance by the dancing troupe at the local theatre, and is impressed by their act. Feeling that the troupe should continue their act, the professor finances the troupe and takes them to perform on Broadway, but only after James insists that the act be improved to a higher standard. Post''s suggestions of using inspiration from Ancient Greece are taken on board, with some minor alterations, and the show is turned into a grandiose musical revue. Although Post wishes that Pansy be the leading lady, the show is quickly turned into a star-vehicle for spoiled actress Eleanor Espere (Thelma Todd), who attempts to win over the professor in order to take total control over both the show and the money it is expected to earn at its debut. Pansy attempts to warn the professor of Eleanor''s bad influence, with mixed results. On the night of the show''s debut, James discovers that Prof. Post does not really have the $750,000 he believes to possess and attempts to keep him away from the production for fear of ruining it. The professor stumbles on-stage at several points, amusing the audience who think it to be part of the act, and ensuring the success of the show. However, his antics cause Eleanor to throw a tantrum, and Prof. Post is finally able to admit his love to Pansy.'
'drama','John Barrymore plays near-alcoholic defense attorney Tom Cardigan who handles a lot of cases for his childhood friend, gangster Valentine "Vanny" Powers (William "Stage" Boyd who used "Stage" as his middle name to distinguish him from the better known William Boyd of Hopalong Cassidy fame). Powers thinks it would be a good idea for Cardigan to become Attorney General so his friend could do an occasional favor in return for Powers delivering the votes. Cardigan warns him that if Cardigan goes over to "the other side," Powers can expect no favors from him. Meanwhile, Cardigan decides to defend a homeless woman, June Perry (Helen Twelvetrees), accused of “tapping at the window” and, after secretly fitting her with a wedding ring he keeps in his pocket, frees her by noting the presence of said ring (inferring she therefore could not be loitering for prostitution). He takes her home and, in a plot twist the Production Code would not allow, June stays there overnight. And every night thereafter. Cardigan''s success as Attorney General makes him a likely candidate for Governor. A political kingmaker thinks it''s possible and his daughter, Lillian (Jill Esmond), begins dating Cardigan. During a drunken spree, they get married and he then goes home to tell June the bad news. During his explanation, he realizes he has made a terrible mistake and that he loves June, not Lillian. Nonetheless, June leaves and Cardigan goes on a honeymoon bender for several days, alone. Meanwhile, June has returned to her old friends in the Powers mob at a bar. Unfortunately, she walks outside just in time to see Powers murder a man in cold blood. She turns and walks quickly away. Powers catches up with her and threatens to kill her unless June keeps her mouth shut. She agrees but an off-stage policeman overhears her agreement and jails her as a material witness. An Italian tenor, Mario (Albert Conti), confronts Cardigan as he is sobering up, saying he wants to marry Lillian. Breathing a sigh of relief, Cardigan says he will annul his marriage. Later, Cardigan interviews the material witness and finds it''s June (who refuses to return to him, thinking he has betrayed his values so he can become Governor). She adamantly maintains she did not see the murder so he releases her as a witness. At Powers'' trial, the defense springs June as a surprise witness, forcing her to admit that she could see the killer but didn''t see the murder and didn''t recognize Powers. Shocking his assistants, Cardigan decides not to cross-examine her. Powers laughs heartily, stopping Cardigan in his tracks. The Attorney General then withdraws his waiver, whispering “that laugh is going to cost you your neck” to Powers and promptly badgers and confuses June so that she blurts out an identification of Powers as the killer. Begging the court''s indulgence, Cardigan abruptly announces that his assistants will handle the rest of the case. He then confesses that he had been sent to reform school—with Powers—for burglary and will therefore not run for governor, returning to his defense attorney status immediately. (Powers had threatened to blackmail him if Cardigan prosecuted him.) Outside, June congratulates him for his courage and for choosing his values over his ambition. They embrace and leave hand in hand.'
'drama','A man whose wife has deserted him winds up saving a beautiful girl from the clutches of a murderous bandit on a Nicaraguan coffee plantation.[1]'
'drama','A young dress designer marries an insurance agent. They soon have a daughter, But what the wife doesn''t know is that her husband is actually a criminal, who soon involves her—unwittingly—in robbery. Sentenced to prison, she gives up her baby for adoption. When she is released 15 years later, she set out to find her long-lost daughter. A police inspector get involved in her search and, for reasons of his own, tries to dissuade her from finding her child.'
'drama','Gordon Shaw was a flyer who was shot down and killed during World War I. Nina (Norma Shearer) would have married him before he left, but her father forbade the marriage. Charlie (Ralph Morgan) is a friend, but Nina does not love him; and he is too timid, too shy, to tell her the way he feels about her. Sam (Alexander Kirkland) is her husband, but her love for him disappears after the ceremony, when she finds out that there is mental illness in his family and that there can be no children. To have the child she wants, but cannot have with Sam, she has a secret affair with Ned (Clark Gable), who wants her to leave Sam. Gordon Evans (Robert Young) is the result of the affair, but he does not know Ned is his real father. Nina continues to play with the emotions of all three men and devote herself only to Gordon.'
'comedy','Henry Wilton is a successful financier who is returning to America after a year away in Europe helping to arrange war debt repayments. He looks forward to being reunited with his family, including his much-younger second wife Emmy, his daughter Peggy and his son Eddie. However, when he arrives in his hometown on the train the only one there to greet him is his butler, Connors, much to Henry''s dismay. The butler informs him that he is home a day earlier than expected, and that Peggy is an aspiring actress and Eddie is a polo player. They visit Eddie at the polo field, then arrive home, where they find that Emmy is having guests over at a music recital by composer Pietro Rafaelo. Henry further finds that in his absence Emmy has redecorated his bedroom in the Art Nouveau style, and removed his comfortable chair, which Connors has taken for safekeeping. While in Connors'' room, Henry is visited by George Struthers, Peggy''s fortune-hunting fiance who she plans to marry for his money. Henry tries to buy a stock from Partington, his business rival, who refuses to honour an agreement they had to sell it at a certain price, claiming that the agreement is not in writing. Meanwhile, the Wilton family are rarely spending much time together, and Henry becomes tired of his family''s hectic social schedule. When Connors tells him that the poor can''t go out too often, Henry decides to feign poverty to test his family''s mettle. Accordingly, Henry tells his wife and children that he is ruined, and they rally to his side. They decide to give up their plans and stay home for dinner, leading to a frantic effort by the servants to come up with food. Furthermore, Emmy regrets her extravagance, Peggy gives up her engagement to George for Larry Rivers, who she is really in love with, and Eddie decides to get a job as a pilot, and goes to Partington for a letter of introduction. Partington is delighted to hear that Henry is ruined, and assumes that the stock he holds will lose its value and wants to get rid of it as soon as possible. Henry then buys Partington''s stock by acting through a third party, at a price lower than that they had agreed upon, and that Partington had paid for it in the first place. Meanwhile, Emmy says she is going out for a walk, and goes off in a car with Pietro. Avenged on his rival, Henry comes home and tells his children that he is not ruined after all, but they tell him that Emmy has gone out and seems to have deserted him. However, Emmy comes back and tells them that she had gone out to pawn her jewelry in order to help him, and that she was happiest when they were poor and could not go out, and thus able to spend time as a family.'
'drama','Felix ''"Felixel" Klauber (Ricardo Cortez), a brilliant young man from a tight-knit Jewish family living in New York City''s Lower East Side ghetto, becomes a physician, as he has wanted to do since childhood, eventually establishing himself as a Park Avenue doctor catering to the wealthy after working his way up from being a doctor at a Lower East Side clinic. He is spurred on in his ambitions by an older brother, who is materialistic and uses Felix''s love for their mother to insist that Felix better his station in life for the benefit of his family. Felix''s success causes him to become estranged from both his family and the community back in the old neighborhood, including his childhood friend Jessica (Irene Dunne), who has been disabled with a spine malady since she was young girl. Jessica becomes a teacher of blind children. Felix begins ignoring the clinic he established in the old neighborhood as well as his familial and community obligations. A blind child, a student of Jessica, perishes as Felix is tardy in offering his help. Felix operates on his beloved father, who has a brain tumor, and is mortified when he dies on the table. He turns away from surgery and his gift of healing, concentrating on catering to well-heeled hypochondriacs. Then, Jessica—who has loved Felix all her life—requires an operation on her spine. Can he overcome his fears and insecurities to save her life?'
'adventure','James Parker (C. Aubrey Smith) and Harry Holt (Neil Hamilton) travel in Africa on a quest for the legendary elephant burial grounds and their ivory. They are joined by Parker''s daughter Jane (Maureen O''Sullivan). Holt is attracted to Jane, and tries somewhat ineffectively to protect her from the jungle''s dangers. He notably fails to prevent her abduction by the jungle''s guardian, the mysterious Tarzan (Johnny Weissmuller) and his ape allies. The experience is terrifying to Jane at first, but as their relationship develops, she finds herself happy: "Not a bit afraid, not a bit sorry." As she returns to her father, her feelings are brought to a test. She wants Tarzan to come with her to London, and to be part of her world. But Tarzan turns his back on her and returns to the jungle. Her father tells her that is where Tarzan belongs, she cries, "No dad, he belongs to me." The expedition is captured by a tribe of aggressive dwarfs. Jane sends Tarzan''s ape friend Cheeta (Jiggs) for help, bringing Tarzan to their rescue. During the rescue, Tarzan summons elephants and they escape from the dwarf''s stronghold, although Jane''s father dies from wounds just as they reach the elephant graveyard. Jane decides to stay in the jungle with Tarzan and in the final scene, to the music of Tchaikovsky''s Romeo and Juliet, the happy couple appear on a rock, Jane holding Cheeta like a baby.'
'drama','When a veteran cab driver, Pop Riley (Guy Kibbee), refuses to be pressured into surrendering his prime soliciting location outside a cafe, where his daughter works, the old man''s cab is intentionally wrecked by a ruthless mob seeking to dominate the cab industry. Upon learning of the "accidental" destruction of his cab (and along with it his livelihood), the old man retrieves his handgun and shoots the bullying man known to be responsible, which lands him in prison, where he dies of poor health in fairly short order. Pop''s waitressing daughter, Sue (Loretta Young), is asked by a scrappy young cab driver, Matt (James Cagney), to lend moral support to a resistance movement populated by other drivers, who are also experiencing similar strong-arm tactics by the same aggressive group of thugs. However, after enduring the crushing loss of her father, Sue undergoes a complete ethical reversal about the notion of fighting back, feels thoroughly sickened by the violence and bloodshed, and she angrily tells the drivers as much. Her unpredictably wilful but passionate rant instantly lands her on Matt''s bad side, although he eventually has a redemptive change of heart, then seeks to charm Sue into becoming his girlfriend. They start dating and compete in a foxtrot. Matt and Sue get married. On their wedding night they go to a nightclub with Matt''s brother Dan. They are all taunted by Buck Gerard, the man responsible for the attacks on cab drivers. Sue stops Matt from attacking Buck, but Buck stabs and kills Dan. Matt doesn''t tell the police who killed Dan so he can get revenge himself. Sue warns Buck''s girlfriend, Marie, that Matt is after him. Matt tracks down Buck but Sue and Marie keep him away from Buck long enough for the police to arrive. Matt fires a gun at the room Buck is hiding in but Buck has fallen to his death while trying to escape. Sue decides to leave Matt but changes her mind.'
'comedy','Calvin Jones (Joe E. Brown), a naive cowboy from Texas, comes to New York City, determined to take care of his mother by investing his life savings in a Broadway show. He is duped by producers Lehman (Lew Cody) and McLure into buying a 49-percent interest in their new show, a surefire flop. Lehman''s beautiful secretary, Ruth Weston (Ginger Rogers), catches the shy cowboy''s eye. Jones makes up his mind to produce the play by himself after Lehman and McLure close it out of town. When he can''t pay for proper costumes, his star actress quits, so Ruth goes on in her place. Although the play is a drama, it is so poorly done that the audience mistakes it for a comedy. The laughter makes it a surprise comedy hit. Jones and Ruth make a big profit, get married and decide to live in Texas.'
'western','Pecos Grant rides into a strange town only to find that everyone recognizes him, but not as Pecos Grant.'
'drama','Expecting to become a doctor, Thomas Jefferson Scott enrolls at Thorpe University. A football coach there, "Daisy" Adams, finds out that while small, Tommy is quick and elusive and a natural at the sport. Tommy isn''t interested in football, but jumps at the coach''s offer of free tuition. For the next two seasons, Tommy is a star player, nicknamed "Snakehips," and a hero on campus. But he resents that while he''s worth a fortune to the college, he has little money and has jeopardized his future in medicine and with fiancee Dorothy by concentrating on football instead. Tommy demands $50,000. A university alumnus, Sedgwick, who is a stockbroker, sets up a holding company in which investors can put their money into Tommy''s potential earnings. Everything goes wrong. Sedgwick''s investments are poor, he loses all of the money and commits suicide. Dorothy''s father, who dislikes Tommy, tempts him with $50,000 if he will break off their engagement. Tommy thinks it over, then asks for $100,000. The crowd boos Tommy on the football field until the newspapers report that Tommy took the 100 grand and replenished the fund, ensuring everyone''s investments. To the fans'' cheers, Tommy wins the game for Thorpe, the ends up marrying Dorothy.'
'drama','Small-town church organist Marion Cullen (Young) falls in love with traveling salesman Jimmy Decker. When she learns that the couple who raised her are not really her parents, and that she is actually the illegitimate daughter of a showgirl, she sets out for New York City in search of Jimmy. However, she discovers that he is engaged to Enid Hollister, his boss''s daughter. Dr. Travers, who is in love with Marion, offers to help her out, but she decides to try to make it on her own. Jobs are scarce, however. She ends up with other hopeful showgirls, among them Dixie Dare, hoping to audition for a part in Ford Humphries'' new production. The philandering Humphries likes what he sees in Marion, and hires her as a piano accompanist. Dixie gets a job as well, and she and Marion become friends and roommates. Travers sees Humphries and Marion together, and knowing the former''s reputation, brings Jimmy to Humphries'' party. Jimmy tells Marion that he loves her, but she refuses to break up his marriage. When she also refuses Humphries'' advances, he fires her, but decides to use one of the songs she has composed in his production, claiming he wrote it himself. When she finds out, she confronts him, but he denies everything. Jimmy goes to Humphries'' suite to try to convince him to do the right thing. During their argument, Humphries stumbles and falls onto the balcony below and ends up in a coma. Jimmy flees the scene, but the police have a description of him and suspect him of attempted murder. To shield Jimmy, Marion confesses to the non-existent crime. Desperate, Travers operates on Humphries for hours; Humphries regains consciousness and explains what really happened in front of witnesses before dying. Marion is released, and becomes engaged to Travers.'
'comedy','When wealthy Henry Davidson dies, he leaves all his money to his faithful butler, Sam Sutton (Summerville), and maid, Molly Hull (Pitts), who are finally able to get married. Their new lives as millionaires gets them involved with flirtatious Lola Montrose (Teasdale) and Davidson''s relative Hillary Hume (Young), and complications ensue. Sam and Molly lose everything, break up, and are finally tricked into reconciling.[4][5]'
'drama','Distracted just before the fight by the news that his mother has died, boxer Jimmy Nolan is defeated in the ring. As he and his sister Mary attend the funeral, Jimmy also deals with an injured arm from the fight. At a nightclub Jerry Filmore owns, Jimmy meets dancer Adele, who is Filmore''s romantic interest as well. A ticket taker at the door, Ralph Landon, takes $500 from the till and plants it on Jimmy, framing him. Jimmy goes to jail. Ralph falls in love with Mary and confides to her that he owed $1,000 to Filmore and set up her brother on his behalf. Jimmy gets out of jail, accepts a fight and wins a $1,000 prize, settling Ralph''s account with Filmore. It leads to a fistfight between the two men. Jimmy wins that one as well.'
'thriller','Thirteen women, who were sorority sisters at the all girl''s college St. Alban''s, all write to a clairvoyant "swami" (C. Henry Gordon) who by mail sends each a horoscope foreseeing swift doom. However, the clairvoyant is under the sway of Ursula Georgi (Myrna Loy), a half-Javanese Eurasian woman who was snubbed at school by the other women owing to her mixed-race heritage, eventually forcing Georgi to leave school. She now seeks revenge by manipulating the women into killing themselves or each other. She also goads the clairvoyant into killing himself by falling into the path of a subway train. The victims are set up and killed off one by one until only Laura Stanhope (Irene Dunne), living in Beverly Hills, is still alive. With the help of Laura''s chauffeur and lover (played by Edward J. Pawley), Ursula tries to kill Laura''s young son, Bobby, with both tainted candy and an explosive rubber ball, but is thwarted. Ursula follows Laura and Bobby as they flee Beverly Hills by train, unaware that police sergeant Barry Clive (Ricardo Cortez) is escorting them. After confronting Laura, and apparently hypnotizing her into falling asleep, Ursula enters Bobby''s room and is caught by Clive. She then flees to the back of the train and jumps to her own death.'
'mystery','Marie Morgan (Ginger Rogers) has been lured to an old abandoned house by a false note from a friend, and is in jeopardy although she doesn''t yet realize it. As she sits at the table inside, she thinks back to the banquet held there 13 years earlier, when she was a little girl. Only 12 of 13 guests had attended, and the manor''s owner, the Morgan family patriarch, who was then dying, has since passed on. The chance to claim the bulk of the estate fortune has resulted in an ongoing campaign of murder by someone targeting the original 12 guests, whose dead bodies are being left at the table in the same seats they had occupied originally.'
'comedy','When Claire Mathewson''s husband Stephen comes back unexpectedly from the 1932 Summer Olympics, where he was supposed to compete in the javelin throw, he discovers the train tickets for a romantic Venice getaway she has planned with her lover Gerald. Gerald''s friend, Bunny, lies and says that the tickets are actually for Gerald and his wife. With Stephen still suspicious, Gerald must find a fake wife to go to Venice with him. He tries to hire the actress Chou-Chou, but since her boyfriend is a jealous man, she gives the job to out-of-work Germaine, who needs the 2000 franc fee to keep from starving. At first, Gerald thinks she is too demure, but she soon convinces him that she can pretend to be a glamorous wife. The two couples go to Venice. Bunny, attracted to Germaine, decides to join them. On the train, Stephen questions Gerald and Germaine about how they met. When they arrive in Venice, Claire quickly becomes jealous, as both Stephen and Gerald seem fascinated by Germaine. Claire eventually demands that Gerald send Germaine away immediately, so he orders her to leave the next day. Meanwhile, a drunken Bunny climbs a ladder into Germaine''s bedroom and offers to take her away. After she turns down his offer, he falls into a canal on his way out and is apprehended by two policemen. Stephen believes he hears a burglar and goes to her room to investigate. The two are then caught in a seemingly compromising position by Gerald and Claire. However, Bunny reappears and explains what really happened. Her love for her husband rekindled, Claire breaks off her affair with Gerald. Germaine reveals to Gerald that she is not in fact Chou-Chou and decides to return to Paris, but Gerald catches up to her in a gondola and asks her to marry him.'
'drama, crime','Three women who went to the same elementary school, Mary (Joan Blondell), Ruth (Bette Davis), and Vivian (Ann Dvorak), meet again as young adults after some time apart. They each light a cigarette from the same match and discuss the superstition that such an act is unlucky and that Vivian, the last to light her cigarette, will be the first to die. Mary is a show girl who has established stability in her life after spending some time in a reform school, while Ruth works as a stenographer. Vivian is the best off of the three, married to successful lawyer Robert Kirkwood (Warren William) and with a young son Robert Jr. (Buster Phelps), but she has grown dissatisfied with her life. Just before she is about to leave on an ocean cruiser with her son, Mary comes along with two men going to a party on the ship, before it leaves. Gambler Michael Loftus (Lyle Talbot) one of the two men flirts around with Vivian and persuades her to run away with him. Vivian and Michael Loftus run a very shabby life, so that Mary concerned about Vivian''s neglect of her son, tells Robert (nearly mad about the disappearance of his son) where to find his boy. Mary and Ruth are very fond of Junior so that Robert proposes to Mary and hires Ruth to look after the child. Mary and Robert marry the same day his divorce from Vivian becomes final. Meanwhile, Vivian''s money runs out and Michael owes $2,000 to gangster Ace (Edward Arnold), who tells him to pay up or else. Desperate, Michael tries to blackmail Robert by threatening to inform the press about Mary''s criminal background. When that does not work, he kidnaps Robert''s boy. However, Vivian scrawls a message in lipstick on her nightgown and throws herself out the window of the fourth-floor apartment where she and her son are being held, leading to the child''s rescue.'
'drama','The plot concerns a one-handed tuna fisherman named Mike (Robinson) whose wife falls for the man he lost his hand saving.'
'drama','A young man (Tom Brown) attends Culver Military Academy. He is the only son of a deceased soldier who won the Congressional Medal of Honor.'
'romantic comedy','In Venice, Gaston Monescu (Herbert Marshall), a master thief masquerading as a baron, meets Lily (Miriam Hopkins), a beautiful thief and pickpocket posing as a countess. The two fall in love and decide to team up. They leave Venice for Paris. There, Gaston steals a diamond-encrusted purse worth 125,000 francs (about 75,000 euros) from Madame Mariette Colet (Kay Francis), owner of the famous perfume manufacturer Colet and Co. When Mariette offers a large reward for its return, Gaston claims it, giving the name of Lavalle. While claiming the reward, Gaston charms Mariette, and admits to being broke. Mariette hires him as her private secretary. He arranges for Lily to be employed in Mariette''s office, and stands up to Mariette''s board of directors, led by Monsieur Adolph J. Giron (C. Aubrey Smith), the manager, who is openly suspicious of him. Having observed Mariette open her private safe (and memorized the combination), Gaston persuades her that she should keep a large sum there, including half of her next dividend installment. Mariette begins to flirt with Gaston, and he begins to have feelings for her. Unfortunately for the thieves, Mariette has two suitors: the Major (Charles Ruggles), and François Filiba (Edward Everett Horton), who was robbed in Venice by Gaston (posing as a doctor). François sees Gaston at a garden party, and is sure they have met - but can''t immediately recall where. Fearing imminent discovery, Gaston and Lily decide to flee that night with what is in the safe, and not wait for the dividend installment. Mariette is invited to a dinner party given by the Major. She cannot decide whether to go or to spend the night in bed with Gaston. Eventually she goes, but not before Lily catches on that Gaston has fallen for her rival, and wants to back out of the plan. At the party, the Major tells François that he once mistook Gaston for a doctor, and François then recalls the Venice incident. François tells Mariette about Gaston, but she refuses to believe it''s true. Lily robs the safe herself after confronting her partner. Mariette returns home and suggestively probes Gaston, who admits that the safe has been cleaned out, but claims that he himself took the cash. He also tells her that Monsieur Giron has stolen millions from the firm over the years. Lily then confronts Mariette and Gaston, admitting that it was she who stole the money from the safe. An argument ensues. Eventually, Mariette allows the two thieves to leave together. As a parting shot, Gaston steals a necklace from Mariette that Lily had her eye on, and, in turn, Lily steals it from him, displaying it to him as the taxi takes them away, hugging each other.'
'drama','Lawyer Dave Norton offers a settlement for the destitute family of a man killed while working for the Hamilton family firm. The upper-class, wealthy Hamiltons gather to decide what to do. They all either vote to fight it in court or, in many cases, simply ignore it. "Dell" Hamilton is an irresponsible socialite who does the latter. However, she and Dave are attracted to each other, despite their very different philosophies of life. He takes her to lunch, and she invites him to an elegant party. At the party, he receives a cold reception from the rest of the family, who consider him far beneath them, but he astonishes them when it is revealed that his family belongs to their own social class. Bob, Adele''s drunkard brother, remains hostile, however, and lies, telling Dave that Dell invited him only to make a fool of him. Dave storms out. The next day, Dell interrupts an unhappy meeting at Dave''s office. She overhears Dave tell his client, Mrs. Polansky, that the Hamiltons'' lawyers can postpone the case indefinitely. When the client wonders who will feed her hungry children, Dell gives her $100 and promises her the same every month for as long as the case takes. One night, Vic Linley wins a great deal of money from Bob. When Dell pleads with Vic to go easy on her brother, he reveals that he is interested in her, having just broken off an affair with her married sister Corinne. Later, Bob finds a vanity case with the Hamilton family seal under a pillow in Vic''s bedroom. He assumes it belongs to Dell (rather than Corinne). When he accuses Dell, she pretends it is true in order to protect her sister. Furious and drunk, Bob goes back to Vic''s place. Dell chases after him, but is too late. Bob shoots and kills Vic in the elevator. The siblings quickly leave the scene. Unaware that Bob is the killer, District Attorney Mills agrees to keep the Hamilton name out of the scandal, but public opinion and newspaper reporter Segall will not let the case be forgotten. Blaming Dave for the uproar, Mills forces the lawyer to take over the case as a newly appointed deputy district attorney by threatening to ruin his career. Dell, however, believes he took the job to further his ambitions. By bad luck, the doorman recognizes Dell when she leaves Dave''s office, and she is put on trial. When she is called to the witness stand, however, Dave cannot bring himself to cross examine her too closely and accepts her unconvincing story. However, the doorman catches her in a lie, and the truth mostly comes out (except for Corinne''s part in it). Bob is acquitted for defending his sister''s honor, and Dell and Dave get back together.'
'western','Rancher Tim Clark borrows money from Bob Russell, who then rustles Clark''s cattle so he will be unable to repay the money. Thus Russell is able to cheat Clark out of his ranch. Clark becomes a prospector for silver and ultimately comes to settle accounts with Russell and crooked deputy Bendix.'
'crime','As John Allen (Edward G. Robinson), a condemned murderer, is led to the electric chair, a witness asks the prison warden how long it takes for the condemned person to die. "A strongly built man like John Allen?" he is told, "It''ll take two seconds". The witness remarks, "That''ll be the longest two seconds of his life." As the executioner throws the switch, the events that led up to the execution appear in flashback. Allen works with his friend and flatmate Bud Clark (Preston Foster), as a riveter, high up on the girders of a skyscraper under construction, getting paid $62.50 a week, "more than a college professor". Bud is engaged to be married, and tries to set up a date for Allen that night, but Allen expresses some disinterest, as Bud keeps setting John Allen up with "firewagons", his term for fat girls. Bud and John go out on the town after Bud winning $38 on the horses. John sees that the girl that Bud''s girl has brought along for him to double date is the "firewagon" (June Gittelson), so he splits off on his own, going to a Taxi dance hall nearby, where he meets dancer Shirley Day (Vivienne Osborne). After dancing and talking to Shirley for some time, he indicates that they should talk some more. "Can''t. Gotta have a ticket". "Well OK", Allen dozily says. "Get a handful so we can dance a lot together". In the five minutes Allen is away buying tickets, Shirley has gone off with another customer. That customer gropes her, and Shirley Day causes a scene, shouting at the customer. "He paid a dime and he thinks that entitles him to privileges". John Allen wades in, punching the customer to the floor. Tony, the dance hall owner (J. Carrol Naish), tells them both to get out, firing Shirley Day. Allen then takes Shirley for a milk shake. Allen had earlier said to Shirley that he wanted a woman with an education, aspirations: "Ain''t no use both of us being dumb". She feigns respectability, telling him that she only works in the dance hall to support her sick parents, who live on a farm in Idaho and that she is educated ("I''ve got a year of high school, wish I''d have stuck it out"). Shirley pretends to be interested in attending a lecture with him. Later, Bud is remonstrating with John about him having hooked up with "a dance hall dame". "How much money has she had off you" Bud asks. "Not a red cent. "We''re going to a lecture", John said. Bud: "if a dame tells a guy she''s going to a lecture that means one thing, she''s got designs on him". John indicates that he doesn''t want to fall out with Bud, trying to get him to like Shirley: "She knows things". Bud: "That dame don''t need to go to school, she knows everything". As John leaves, Bud says more cheerily, "Come home sober and bring me a lollipop". Instead of taking John to "a lecture", Shirley takes him to a speakeasy where she gets him drunk on "tea", bootleg gin was served in teapots to disguise its true nature, as alcohol was illegal then, due to prohibition. When John Allen protests, she says stupidly that they can "catch the second show" of the lecture. John Allen is drunk after the first floor show, drunk, bored and belligerent. He says that Shirley herself shouldn''t drink too much. She intones "I must, because of my problems". "What problems", John Allen responds. Shirley starts crying: "Don''t do that" John says, "not when I''m drunk, I hate that". He then brightens up a bit smiling with realisation "I''m drunk". Liquor was illegal and managing to get "blind drunk" (sometimes literally, the substances being methanol, not alcohol) was something of an achievement to them. Shirley Day kisses him, cheering him up greatly. "You know I like that" he says. Shirley responds, "Would you like more?". Shirley drags John to a justice of the peace (Otto Hoffman). Allen thinks he is still in a speakeasy. He still has a teacup hooked on his finger and is yelling for a waiter to get more drink. The Justice of the Peace says Allen is too drunk, but Shirley bribes him with $10, and indicates that she already has a ring, which she has had for some weeks. When Shirley and a stupefied John Allen return to his apartment, Shirley has a blazing argument with Bud. Bud: "You dirty little ape, did you rope him in? Didn''t take you long to find out he can''t hold his liquor". Shirley shows him the ring. "We''re married, right square and legal, and there''s nothing that you or anyone else can do about it". Shirley throws Bud out. As Bud is leaving, Shirley is getting undressed to consummate the marriage somehow, to a drunk John Allen. Bud says viciously, referring to the comatose John, "You said you''d bring me back a lollipop. You did alright and a red one at that". He flicks a lit cigarette at Shirley''s naked back. Three weeks later, Bud and John are doing their job riveting, 28 stories up. During a break, they argue about Shirley. Bud berates John for being taken in by a liar: "She told you that her parents were living on a farm in I-dee-ho, and all the time they''re living in a booze joint on Tenth Avenue". John admits that Shirley has had much of his money for clothes "which she needed". Bud: "where do you think she goes in the daytime?". John: "she goes to the movies!". Bud: "what about all the money she gets? There aint enough dimes in the day, even if she were on a merry-go-round!". John: "Don''t talk that way about my wife!". John motions to hit Bud with a spanner and Bud falls to his death, shown spinning, screaming as John Allen sobs and the site alarm hooter sounds. The grief-stricken Allen then quits his job, but is demoralized by living off Shirley. Shirley has changed from the bookish nice girl, into a spiteful, controlling vamp. She puts John Allen down, saying "what have you got to live for?" and mocks his nervous condition. Allen responds: "Were you ever 30 stories up with a six-inch girder between you and hell?". Shirley asks him if he''s got any insurance. A kindly doctor (Harry Beresford) is called and gives him a tonic. John Allen says that it''s his nerves. The doctor says that John Allen''s problem is psychological. Shirley is putting a new dress on, new stockings and going out. "Where did you get those things?" John Allen asks. "Tony", Shirley says belligerently. "There, how do I look", she says to John. "Like what you are." John Allen says. John says that she can''t go out looking that way, as his wife. Shirley indicates that she has credibility now, "with the other girls", as she''s married, "there are things a Mrs. can get away with that a Miss can''t". Lizzie, the cleaning lady (Dorothea Wolbert) tells Shirley that the landlady is after them for the rent. John Allen indicates that they must put this off, pay her later. Lizzie indicates that they''ll get thrown out "her brothers a cop you know". Shirley pulls a clip of money out of her stocking. "Where did you get that from?" John asks. "Tony". Shirley tells him that the money is an "advance". She then tells John that she is trying to get Buds ex-girlfriend Annie, who she met at Buds funeral, a job at the dance hall. Allen: "Not Annie!. Annie was Buds ''steady company'' (girlfriend). You can''t make a tramp out of Annie!". Shirley throws a dollar at John Allen as she leaves. "Here''s a BUCK, in case you need anything". Allen has been betting on horses using techniques of multiple bets ("polys") used by Tony. The horseracing bookmaker (Guy Kibbee), arrives at John Allens apartment. John Allen: "What do you want?" Bookie "You''ve won". Allen "How much" Bookie: "$388". John Allen (brightening up momentarily) "$388?". Bookie: "niftiest little poly I ever saw". Bookie: "With that kind of money you can clear a lot of debt". John Allen "I''ll clear them ALL off, that''s what Bud would have wanted me to do". Bookie: "Don''t talk like that". A deranged John Allen insists that he only wants $172 of the winnings. Allen rummages in a cupboard to find his teacup, the one he had on his finger when he got married to Shirley Day. "This teacup was once filled with bootleg liquor, then it was filled with the blood of my only friend". He throws the teacup on the ground, smashing it and exclaims "I''m going to be FREE!". John nervously counts out what Shirley got from Tony and enough for a gun. Allen then strides off purposively to Tony''s dance hall, where he finds Shirley in Tony''s arms". Tony: "What is this?, are you trying to play the spurned husband gag on me?". John thrusts $162 into the hands of Tony, who doesn''t want it, then turns to Shirley: "You. You made a Rat out of me. Bud was right, you were born rotten and now you''re trying to make other girls as rotten as you are". "Born crooked" was how Bud had described Shirley, when arguing with Allen, just before falling to his death. Shirley turns to Tony in panic: "Tony he''s going to kill me!". Johns sweaty deranged face is shown in closeup: "Yeah, i''m going to kill you. If I don''t you''re going to go on like this, from Tony to another man, always making yourself cheaper and dirtier". He fires several bullets into Shirley Day as Tony runs out of the room howling. At his trial, Allen refuses to defend himself, saying he should have been "burned" (electrocuted) when he was at his lowest, a "rat", living off Shirley Day, not after he had paid off his debts. He explains his position in a pitiful, deranged speech, shown looking up, pleading with the judge. "It isn''t fair! It isn''t fair to let a rat live and kill a man!. It isn''t reasonable! It don''t make sense!. I won''t let you do it!", Allen shouts as he slaps the judges bench with his palm. The judge informs Allen that he could have used a defence of insanity, but chose not to, and that he would have been lenient if he had. John Allen is sentenced to death.'
'drama','Several hundred extras appear in the courtroom sequence, described by Toronto''s The Globe suggested that it was "the first modernistic courtroom in a talking picture."[5]'
'drama','Charles "Chick" Miller (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.) is a hobo released from jail for vagrancy, along with fellow drifter "Scrap Iron" Scratch (Guy Kibbee). The two men then head to the local railroad station "to catch a train out of town". Through a series of chance encounters with travelers in the main terminal of Union Depot, Chick becomes, in his own words, a "Gentleman for a Day" (the name under which the film was released in the United Kingdom). Entering Union Depot, Chick, steals or "acquires" a station official''s uniform. Concerned that he will be caught impersonating staff he retreats into the public washroom, where he finds a suitcase left by a drunk passenger. Inside the suitcase are toiletries and a nice double-breasted man''s suit that has a wad of cash in one of its pockets. After getting cleaned up in the washroom and changing into the suit, Chick uses the money to buy himself a much-need meal at the depot''s diner. Soon he meets Ruth Collins (Joan Blondell) sitting on a bench in the main terminal. She tells him that she is an out-of-work chorus girl, is broke, and desperate to raise the $64 train fare to Salt Lake City, where a job is waiting for her. Although she is telling him the truth, he thinks she is a prostitute, and he offers to take her to a nearby private "dining room" to treat her to dinner and to have an intimate time together drinking. There he becomes angry when she resists further advances after they kiss. He calls her a "phony" but begins to believe her story after she shows him a telegram with her job offer. Ruth admits to him that she is certainly "no Pollyanna" but not a prostitute. She then confides to Chick that she is worried about being followed by Dr. Bernardi (George Rosener), whom she describes as a "madman" and a fellow resident of the cheap boarding house where she had lived. She adds that the strange, obsessive doctor had "bad eyes" and had previously paid her to read to him in the evenings, namely lewd "European" publications that she found disgusting. Now feeling sorry for Ruth and describing himself as "Santa Claus", Chick tells Ruth he will give her the money she needs "with no strings attached". Meanwhile, back inside Union Depot, among the crowd is Bushy Sloan (Alan Hale), who presents himself as a German “musician” and carries a violin case. Soon he checks his case at the station''s baggage area, depositing it there for temporary storage. The case, however, does not contain a violin; it is full of counterfeit money. A pickpocket later steals Sloan''s wallet, which holds his baggage-claim ticket. The thief discards the wallet in an alleyway after removing its cash. While waiting for Chick outside the depot, Scrap Iron finds the wallet. It is not completely empty; the ticket is still inside it. Later he gives the ticket to Chick, who uses it to reclaim the violin case. Initially, Chick plans to pawn the case; however, when he opens it, he is stunned to find it full of money, not realizing it is all counterfeit. He hides the case and most of the bogus cash in a coal bin at a small building near the central depot and instructs Scrap Iron to stand guard while he ponders what to do next. Chick sees Ruth again and gives her some of the violin-case money to buy new clothes at a shop in the station. She too is unaware that it is counterfeit. While Chick is away, Dr. Bernardi sends Ruth a passenger ticket and a message to meet him in the designated train compartment. Believing the ticket is from Chick, Ruth goes there. When she finds Bernardi instead, she begins screaming. Chick breaks through the locked door, but Bernardi escapes through a window. As he runs across an adjacent railroad track he is struck by a passing train and killed. A dress shop clerk (Adrienne Dore) who had sold clothes to Ruth becomes suspicious of the cash she had used. The clerk decides to take the counterfeit bills to the station master. Both Ruth and Chick are then taken into custody by government agent Kendall (David Landau). Kendall has been alerted that Bushy, a known criminal, was at the station to pass the phony money to an associate; but he has no description of Bushy. He therefore believes that Ruth might either be Bushy or one of his associates. To clear her, Chick goes to retrieve the hidden violin case and is escorted by another agent, Jim Parker (Earle Foxe). The men are followed by Bushy, who shoots Parker, and flees with the case. Chick chases and catches him. All is eventually cleared up, and Ruth has a bittersweet parting from Chick, as she leaves on the train to Utah. The film ends with Chick and Scrap Iron walking together along the railroad track, away from Union Depot and back to their lives as hobos.'
'drama','Pat and Max are in love and share an intimate relationship. However, after Max receives his surgeon''s diploma, his parents have arranged a marriage for him with a woman from a rich, good background. He marries that woman but occasionally bumps into Pat, explaining how he actually loves her instead of his wife. Pat dislikes the idea of him seeing her on the side. Heartbroken, Pat later meets Eddie (a gumball machine salesman), who proposes marriage, which she accepts. In a hotel bridal suite, Pat mentions her previous relationship to Eddie, and mentions that he can walk out on her if he wants, he is OK with it. Later, While attempting to stop two teenagers from robbing one of Eddie''s gumball machine, she runs across the street without looking and is struck by a truck. She is in the hospital awaiting surgery. Eddie, chooses Max as the surgeon and, later while Pat is in her hospital bed, overhears Max''s conversation with Pat about their love, and his decision to divorce his wife, he will take Pat to Vienna to get well, and they will get married. Eddie decides to walk out on Pat as he believes that she is going to run off with Max. Through complications (and a fight) over Eddie''s attempt to pay Pat''s hospital bill by selling his company which he only owns half of (Pat owns the other half), he ends up in jail. Pat runs to the jail and explains the misunderstanding and proclaims her love for Eddie.'
'drama','This film adaptation''s storyline begins around 1920 and concludes in 1933.[1] In its opening scene a limousine is traveling down a road outside London. In the car are two passengers, Amelia Sedley (Barbara Kent) and her friend Becky Sharp (Myrna Loy), young ladies who agewise are in their twenties. Amelia is from a rich, well-connected family, while Becky is from very modest means and has no family at all. Given Becky''s circumstances, Amelia has invited her to her home for the Christmas holidays. At the Sedley estate Amelia''s family welcomes their guest, but the mother is soon wary of her. Those suspicions are warranted, for Becky aims to use her beauty and guile to gain wealth and privilege by climbing England''s social ladder. Her first target for achieving those goals is Joseph, Amelia''s much-older brother (Billy Bevan). After Becky tries unsuccessfully to trap him into marriage, Mrs. Sedley sees her cuddling in the home''s drawing room with her daughter''s fiancé, George Osborne. Disgusted, the mother calls "Miss Sharp" into the adjoining room, where she advises Becky to leave immediately so she can begin the job she had accepted before the holidays, that of governess for the family of Sir Pitt Crawley. Becky heeds the thinly veiled advice and departs.[2][3] Upon her arrival at the residence of Lord Crawley, Becky quickly stirs the passions of both the elderly Sir Pitt and his son Rawdon (Conway Tearle). The new governess entices them with her suggestive comments and by allowing each man into her bedroom at night while she glides about in her satin pajamas. Soon she and Rawdon begin a secretive affair, but Sir Pitt finally catches them together in Becky''s bedroom. There they inform him they had married the previous day. That news enrages the old man, who orders his son and his "shameless little hussy" out of his house. Relocating to a townhouse in London''s Mayfair district, Becky and Rawdon feel the financial strains of being cut off from Lord Crawley and his wealth. The couple at first brings in money by betting and cheating their friends playing bridge. That income, however, is insufficient for their mounting bills, so Becky schemes to find other ways to get money. She does so through blackmail and by obtaining gifts from a string of lovers, including George Osborne, now the husband of her friend Amelia. Eventually, even Rawdon cannot tolerate his wife''s wanton, criminal behavior. On the evening he is released from police custody for writing bad checks, Rawdon finds Becky at their home with another lover. He declares their marriage is over and gives her only ten minutes to vacate the premises. As she leaves, he informs Becky that his father had just died, and he is now the new Lord Crawley. He then warns her that if she ever dares to refer to herself as "Lady Crawley," he will track her down and kill her. Several years pass and Becky lives in a far less affluent, largely French-speaking area of London.[4][5] There she prowls the area''s bars and casinos, getting money from the assorted men she meets. One evening in a casino, she sees Amelia''s brother Joseph, who updates her about his sister''s situation. While Becky already knows that Amelia''s husband George had died five years earlier in a horse-riding accident, she learns from Joseph that Amelia still refuses to remarry. Subsequently she also learns that her friend''s devotion to George''s memory and her mistaken belief in his fidelity have led Amelia to refuse repeated marriage proposals from Dobbin, a gentleman who has adored her for years. Sometime later, Becky invites Amelia to her apartment and confesses her affair with George. She then calls Amelia a fool for revering a dead "cad" and urges her to wed Dobbin, who is waiting outside in a car. When Amelia rejoins him after Becky''s disclosures, she rests her head on Dobbin''s shoulder, implying that his next proposal will be accepted. The film sequence that follows shows the passage of more years and the ongoing disintegration of Becky''s life, which has become a daily struggle marked by petty crimes, prostitution, and meager funds. In the final scene Becky enters her shabby one-room apartment. Lying on the bed is Joseph, stirring from his latest binge. She addresses him as "my love" and informs him that his sister had just given her another check. He is infuriated and tells her never to accept money again from Amelia. Becky turns, sits at a dresser, and stares into its mirror. In the reflection she watches her face transform from the reality of its present haggard appearance to its former beauty. She then notices that Joseph has quietly departed. She also notices on a small bedside bureau that he has torn up his sister''s check, and in the dust that coats the bureau''s surface he has written Finis ("The End").[6] The film concludes with Becky lowering her face into her hands and weeping.'
'romance','New York City streetwalker Mae (Carole Lombard) is placed on a train by a policeman and told not to come back. However, she gets off, taking the cab of Jimmy Doyle (Pat O''Brien), who doesn''t think much of women. She slips away without paying the fare. Her friend and fellow prostitute, Lil (Mayo Methot), advises her to find honest work. The next day, Mae goes to the cab company to pay Jimmy. They start arguing, but they are attracted to each other. He gets her a job as a waitress. By coincidence, Gert (Shirley Grey), another former prostitute who knows her, also works at the restaurant. Jimmy and Mae soon marry, but Mae doesn''t tell her new husband about her past. After a honeymoon at Coney Island, the happy couple are met at Mae''s apartment by a policeman who mistakes Jimmy for Mae''s latest "client". Jimmy shows him their marriage license to clear up the trouble, then leaves to think things over. He returns the next day, ready to try to make the marriage work. Jimmy has saved $420 of the $500 he needs to become a partner in Flannagan''s gas station. However, Gert begs Mae to lend her $200 for a doctor. Despite her misgivings, Mae gives it to her. The next day, she learns that Gert has lied to her. When Jimmy tells her that the gas station owner needs money and is willing to settle for what he already has, Mae begins searching desperately for Gert. Mae finally finds her and slaps her around until she promises to get her the money the next night. However, Gert has given the money to her boyfriend Toots (Jack La Rue), who is also Lil''s pimp. When Gert tries to steal the $200 from his wallet, Toots catches her and accidentally kills her. He hides the body, then watches from hiding as Mae shows up, finds the money and leaves. The police arrest Mae for the crime because she left her bag behind in Gert''s apartment. However, a distrusting Jimmy had been following Mae and knows a man was with Gert. He learns that it was Toots, but when he confronts him, Lil gives Toots an alibi. Jimmy goes to the district attorney to report what he knows. Lil convinces Toots to go to the district attorney to lodge a complaint against Jimmy. Lil reveals herself to be Mae''s true friend, admitting that Toots lied and exonerating Mae. Jimmy goes to the gas station to tell Flannagan he no longer wants to buy into the partnership. He sees Mae pumping gas under a Doyle & Flannagan sign. They argue and reconcile.'
'drama','Button Gwinnett Brown (Lee Tracy) is a new congressman in the U.S. House of Representatives. He refuses bribes, vowing to rid Washington of corruption; but crosses swords with powerful senator Edward Norton (Alan Dinehart), who wants to enlist Brown to help Prohibition bootleggers. Norton also happens to be chasing elder senator Wylie''s (Walter Connolly) daughter Alice (Constance Cummings), who Brown has also fallen for. In order to silence the idealistic newcomer, politicians stage a phony re-count and Brown loses his government seat. However, with the help of Senator Wylie and Alice, Brown manages to win back his place and clean up the halls of justice.'
'drama','Returning back to United States from Europe, a woman is torn between the love of her kindly husband and the attempt by her former husband to rekindle the former passion they once shared.'
'drama','In the early 20th Century, with the Prohibition Era approaching, two families come undone over the evils of alcohol. The drinking of Roger Chilcote costs him everything, including all his family''s money after gambling it away, after his daughter Maggie May''s repeated attempts to persuade him to quit. Chilcote commits suicide. Roger Jr. is a writer who is befriended by Jerry Tyler, a newspaper reporter in New York City. Jerry leaves for France to fight in the war. Meanwhile, the Tarleton family is at odds over the coming presidential election. A hotel is owned by Pow Tarleton and his wife, but Pow''s drinking binges are becoming worse, particularly after Woodrow Wilson''s election as president. Kip believes in abstinence and in the passage of the 18th Amendment, opposed by Wilson. One day when Maggie May turns up, Kip mistakes her at first for a working girl, then develops a strong romantic attraction to her. Pow accidentally drinks bootleg liquor that is contaminated. He beats his wife fatally and ends up convicted of murder, sentenced to life imprisonment. Kip sells the family hotel and joins the U.S. Treasury department, coming under the wing of Abe Schilling, a wise, older agent for the bureau. Both receive threats from gangsters who trade in outlawed liquor. Roger Jr.''s alcoholism has tragic results when he consumes wood alcohol and goes blind, costing him everything, including the love of Eileen Pinchon, who runs a speakeasy. Kip, meanwhile, is now with Maggie, who is pregnant. Kip is kidnapped by gangsters, then saved by Abe, who dies while rescuing him, advising Kip that taking care of his family comes first.'
'drama','Brown Derby waitress Mary Evans (Constance Bennett) is an aspiring actress who has an opportunity to meet film director Maximillan Carey (Lowell Sherman) when she serves him one night. He is very drunk but is charmed by the young girl, and he invites her to a premiere at Grauman''s Chinese Theatre. Adhering to his policy of living life with a sense of humor, he picks her up in a jalopy rather than a limousine and then gives the parking valet the car as a tip. Max takes Mary home with him after the event, but the next morning remembers nothing about the previous night. She reminds him he promised her a screen test and expresses concern about his excessive drinking and flippant attitude, but he tells her not to worry. Mary''s first screen test reveals she has far more ambition than talent, and she begs for another chance. After extensive rehearsals, she shoots the scene again, and producer Julius Saxe (Gregory Ratoff) is pleased with the result and signs her to a contract. Just as quickly as Mary achieves stardom, Max finds his career on the decline, and he avoids a romantic relationship with her for fear she will be caught up in his downward spiral. Mary meets polo player Lonny Borden (Neil Hamilton). He genuinely loves her and, although he is jealous of the demands made on her by her career, he convinces her to marry him, against Julius and Max''s better judgment. Lonny becomes increasingly annoyed by the dedication of his movie star wife to her work, and finally walks out on her. After their divorce is finalized, Mary discovers she is pregnant. Mary wins the Academy Award for Best Actress, but her moment of glory is disrupted when she''s called upon to post bail for Max after he''s arrested for drunk driving. She takes him to her home, where he wallows in self-pity despite her encouragement. Later, alone in Mary''s dressing room, he stares at his dissolute image in the mirror and compares it to a photograph of himself in earlier days. Finding a gun in a drawer, he kills himself with a bullet to the chest. Mary becomes the center of gossip focusing on Max''s suicide. Hoping to heal her emotional wounds, she flees to Paris with her son and reunites with Lonny, who begs her to forgive him and give their marriage another chance.'
'drama','Jacques Costaud, a French war veteran is sentenced to life in prison for killing a man but soon escapes from a penal colony in French Guyana. He then flees to Paris to find his daughter Manon, who believes him dead. Now he must try to keep her from being abducted into a life of prostitution and keeping his true identity a secret.'
'horror','On her arrival in Haiti, Madeleine Short (Madge Bellamy) reunites with her fiancé Neil Parker (John Harron), with imminent plans to be married. On the voyage, she met Charles Beaumont (Robert Frazer), a wealthy planter who convinced her to have the marriage ceremony at his plantation house. Beaumont has fallen in love with Madelaine, and plans to get Neil out of the way by giving him a job in New York as his agent. On the way to Beaumont''s house, the couple''s carriage passes "Murder" Legendre (Bela Lugosi), an evil voodoo master, leading a group of zombies. Legendre observes them with interest and manages to grab Madeleine''s scarf. After arriving at the house, and meeting Dr. Bruner (Joseph Cawthorn), who is to perform the ceremony, the couple is shown to their rooms, and Beaumont goes off in a cart driven by a zombie to meet Legendre at Legendre''s sugarcane mill, operated entirely by zombies. Beaumont solicits Legendre''s supernatural assistance in getting Madeleine to marry him. Legendre states that the only way is to transform Madeleine into a zombie with a potion. Beaumont protests that he will find another way, but Legendre insists that the potion is the only way, and makes him he take it with him. The next day, as Beaumont is leading Madeleine to the altar, he tries to convince her not to go through with the wedding, but she insists. He asks for one final kiss, and gives her a rose with the potion on it. She kisses the flower and puts it into her bouquet. Shortly after the ceremony, the potion takes effect, and Madeleine appears to die. Haunted by Madeleine''s death, Neil takes to drink, and sees apparitions of her in every shadow. Legendre and Beaumont enter Madeleine''s tomb at night with Legendre''s zombie servants, who were all his enemies when they were alive. Hearing the raving Neil approach, they remove Madeleine''s casket from the tomb. Finding it empty, Neil seeks assistance from Dr. Bruner, who explains to him about the possible existence of zombies. In Legendre''s cliffside castle, Madeleine has been revived as a zombie, and Beaumont listens to her play the piano, her eyes lifeless. He gives her jewelry, but she does not respond. Beaumont now regrets having transformed her into a zombie. He begs Legendre to return her to life, but he refuses, and demonstrates his mental control over her by wordlessly sending her away. After drinking a glass of wine offered by Legendre, Beaumont realizes that it is tainted with the potion, and that he will be turned into a zombie. Legendre tells Beaumont that he has his own plans for Madeleine. Beaumont calls on his butler, Silver, to help him, but Legendre transfixes Silver with his eyes, and the zombie servants take him away to a terrible death. Neil and Bruner seek out an old witch doctor, Pierre (Dan Crimmins), who tells them that all his people are afraid of the mountains, which they call "The Land of the Living Dead", because of the evil man who lives there named "Murder." Camping out not far from the foot of Legendre''s castle, Neil and Bruner hear the terrible screeches of a vulture. Bruner heads out to the castle, but Neil is too ill to go with him, so Bruner goes alone. Shortly afterwards, Neil has another vision of Madeleine, and follows it to the castle, where Madeleine is attended by human maids who cannot bear to touch the zombie woman, even to brush her hair. Legendre and Beaumont are together in the main room. Because Beaumont is the first man to actually know that he is turning into a zombie, Legendre questions him about his "symptoms", but Beaumont cannot speak. After Neil enters the castle, Legendre senses his presence and silently orders Madeleine to kill him, over Beaumont''s feeble protest. She approaches the passed-out Neil with a knife, but she hesitates. Legendre increases his telepathic command, and Madeleine raises the knife to strike, but Bruner stops her. She runs away, and Neil wakes up and sees her, calling after her. He follows her to a high place above the Caribbean Sea, and entreats her to recognize him. Legendre watches them, and telepathically calls his zombie servants to kill Neil. Neil shoots at them, but they are uninjured, and keep coming towards him. Just then, Bruner approaches Legendre and knocks him out, breaking his mental control over his zombies. Undirected, they ignore Neil and walk off the cliff. The veil is lifted from Madeleine''s eyes so that she recognizes Neil for a moment, but Legendre wakes up, re-establishing his control over the girl, and forces Neil and Bruner back with the strength of his will. However, Beaumont appears behind him, and pushes Legendre off the cliff into the churning waters below. Beaumont loses his balance and also falls to his death, followed by a screeching vulture. Legendre''s death releases Madeleine from her trance, and she awakens to embrace Neil. "Neil," she says, "I dreamed."'
'drama','Rising boxer Jimmy Kane is sent from New York City to the Rosario Ranch and Hot Springs in New Mexico to regain his health after spending too much time with women and drink. There he meets young widow Peggy Harmon and her son Dickie. She eventually falls in love with him, and he likes her too. When Jimmy finds out that she will have to cut short her son''s treatment because she will not receive an insurance payout, Jimmy takes on a tough fight in Tijuana to raise the $600 she needs. The marks on his face show Peggy where the money came from. Jimmy returns to New York. After one fight, he is introduced by Roger Elliot to flighty, flirty socialite Joan Gibson. He soon falls for her, and he mistakes her interest in him as love. When Pop Slavin, Jimmy''s manager, arranges for him to fight for the lightweight championship, Jimmy turns it down. Instead, he secretly goes to a plastic surgeon to have his nose and cauliflower ear fixed after Joan remarks that he would almost be handsome if it were not for those features. He gets etiquette lessons from Forbes. When he springs his surprise on Joan, she is not amused. She complains to a friend that he is no longer different and colorful. Jimmy has Pop set up fights with lesser foes. He changes his style, boxing rather than punching, to avoid risking damage to his new face. The fans boo him. Meanwhile, Pop sends for Peggy. Jimmy has to tell her that he is seeing someone else. Joan''s butler tells Jimmy that she is not home, but he bursts in on her party. He tells her that he will fight one last time, for the championship, after which - win or lose - they will get married. He sends her ringside tickets. The night of the fight, Jimmy is concerned when he does not see Joan there. He sends Rosebud to call and find out where she is. After one round, in which Jimmy once again avoids contact, Rosebud reports that Joan is leaving on an ocean liner in about twenty minutes. Jimmy attacks furiously and knocks out the champion. Then he takes a taxi to the pier. When he finds Joan, she lies and tells him that her sister needs her, but when Roger Elliot enters the cabin, it all becomes clear. Jimmy punches Roger and kicks Joan when she bends over Roger''s unconscious body. Jimmy then proposes to Peggy.'
'crime','After prosecutor David Rolfe (Douglas) has racketeer Benny Morgan arrested, mobster Harry Evans (Boyd) gives orders to his chauffeur (Dumbrille) to kill David, but the chauffeur fails. The next day, David''s fiancée, Margaret Hughes (Colbert), leaves on a cruise with Jimmy O''Neill (Alexander), her friendly suitor, warning David she won''t marry a man for whom work is more important than she. David cannot give Margaret a proper bon voyage because he is trying to save his naïve young cousin, Phil Long (Tone), from the clutches of gold-digging moll Claire Foster (Tashman), with whom David used to be involved. When David warns Phil that Claire belongs to Evans, Phil takes David''s revolver with him to Claire''s hotel to confront her. Evans enters in his housecoat and Phil shoots him in the arm. They struggle and Phil is killed. When David arrives, Claire, on Evans'' orders, says Phil killed himself, then calls the police and frames David as the killer. In court, David''s defense is greatly weakened by Claire''s acting ability, and she successfully seduces the all-male jury. Margaret returns for the trial and remarks that a jury of the "wiser sex" would see right through Claire''s histrionics. In order to gather evidence, Margaret goes undercover as blonde gold digger Ruby Kennedy and takes a room adjacent to Claire''s. Through diamonds and liquor, Margaret befriends Claire and wheedles her into revealing more about the case. Jimmy and Margaret throw a party for Claire and Evans, and Evans makes several passes at Margaret. During the party, Evans'' cook, Fritz (Robert Fischer), who helped him with his wound the morning of the murder, accidentally bumps Evans'' arm and Evans scolds him for calling attention to it. The next day, Fritz is found dead, and Margaret now knows the missing bullet from David''s gun is lodged in Evans. Margaret then meets Evans for a rendezvous, while Jimmy tells Claire he has lost her to Evans. As Evans'' chauffeur identifies Margaret, Claire enters in a jealous rage and reveals Evans as Phil''s murderer. Due to the sleuthing abilities of the "wiser sex," David is released and marries Margaret.'
'mystery','Laura Bruce is divorced from her husband following an unpleasant matrimonial term. She then marries Paul Ramsey, whom she has always loved. Dick Turner, his employer and enamored of Laura, sends her husband away on a business trip. A murder is committed and detective John Bruce seeks to fasten the crime upon Paul. After he fails to do so, a happy ending results.'
'comedy','Joe Holt works for the Armstrong Rubber Goods company and believes he has invented an "unsinkable" bathing suit. His colleagues mock Joe behind his back and fool him into thinking his boss likes the swimsuit idea. Joe travels to California to inherit his aunt''s fortune, which he intends to use to finance manufacturing of his swimsuit. It turns out his aunt died broke. Joe befriends a servant''s son, Sam Wellington, and together take a boat to Santa Catalina Island. A socialite, Alice Brandon, mistakes Joe for a famous swimmer of the same name. She has just broken up with channel swimmer Ed Dover and wants him to lose an upcoming channel race, so she persuades Joe to enter. Sam needs to teach Joe how to swim. The real Joe Holt ends up in jail, being called an impostor. And in the end, amazingly, sinkable Joe impresses Alice by winning the race.'
'musical','It is 1932, the depth of the Depression, and noted Broadway producers Jones (Robert McWade) and Barry (Ned Sparks) are putting on Pretty Lady, a musical starring Dorothy Brock (Bebe Daniels). She is involved with wealthy Abner Dillon (Guy Kibbee), the show''s "angel" (financial backer), but while she is busy keeping him both hooked and at arm''s length, she is secretly seeing her old vaudeville partner, out-of-work Pat Denning (George Brent). Julian Marsh (Warner Baxter) is hired to direct, even though his doctor warns that he risks his life if he continues in his high-pressure profession; despite a long string of successes he is broke, a result of the 1929 Stock Market Crash. He must make his last show a hit, in order to have enough money to retire on. Cast selection and rehearsals begin amidst fierce competition, with not a few "casting couch" innuendos flying around. Naïve newcomer Peggy Sawyer (Ruby Keeler), who arrives in New York from her home in Allentown, Pennsylvania, is duped and ignored until two experienced chorines, Lorraine Fleming (Una Merkel) and Ann "Anytime Annie" Lowell (Ginger Rogers),[4] take her under their wing. Lorraine is assured a job because of her relationship with dance director Andy Lee (George E. Stone); she also sees to it that Ann and Peggy are chosen. The show''s juvenile lead, Billy Lawler (Dick Powell), takes an immediate liking to Peggy, as does Pat. When Marsh learns about Dorothy''s relationship with Pat, he sends some thugs led by his gangster friend Slim Murphy (Tom Kennedy) to rough him up. That, plus her realization that their situation is unhealthy, makes Dorothy and Pat agree not to see each other for a while, and he gets a stock job in Philadelphia. Rehearsals continue for five weeks to Marsh''s complete dissatisfaction until the night before the show''s opening in Philadelphia, when Dorothy breaks her ankle. By the next morning Abner has quarreled with her and wants Julian to replace her with his new girlfriend, Annie. She, however, tells him that she can''t carry the show, but the inexperienced Peggy can. With 200 jobs and his future riding on the outcome, a desperate Julian rehearses Peggy mercilessly (vowing "I''ll either have a live leading lady or a dead chorus girl") until an hour before the premiere. Billy finally gets up the nerve to tell Peggy he loves her; she enthusiastically kisses him. Then Dorothy shows up and wishes her luck, telling her that she and Pat are getting married. The show goes on, and the last twenty minutes of the film are devoted to three Busby Berkeley production numbers: "Shuffle Off to Buffalo", "(I''m) Young and Healthy", and "42nd Street". The show is a hit. As the theater audience comes out Julian stands in the shadows, hearing the comments that Peggy is a star and he (Marsh) does not deserve the credit for it. Plot note In the original Bradford Ropes'' novel Julian and Billy are lovers. Since same-sex relationships were unacceptable in films by the moral standards of the era, the film substituted a romance between Billy and Peggy.'
'drama, war','When the United States enters World War I, Rocky Thorne (Richard Dix) has no interest in joining the military, but just wants to pursue his career as a sculptor. He is cynical about the purpose of the war and the enthusiasm of those who have enlisted, comparing them to lemmings that will swim until they drown themselves. But his fiancée, Nancy Adams (Elizabeth Allen), becomes a Red Cross nurse; she mocks his pacifism and accuses him of cowardice. To prove his bravery, he enlists and becomes a fighter pilot as part of the American Expeditionary Forces. Arriving at his assigned squadron, he is concerned about the people he is going to be shooting at; but his initial reluctance lasts only until he is shot at himself. Then he retaliates, shooting down his first enemy aircraft. Rocky now renounces his past attitude and becomes completely committed to the war in the air, even taking individual flights against orders, to get more chances to shoot down Germans. In a few months he becomes the leading ace. Then, while on furlough in Paris, he runs into his former love, who is a nurse on the front lines. She has been impacted by her experiences and is torn by guilt. When Rocky says that he does not want to waste his valuable leave time on talking and demeans her moral attitude for not wanting to spend the night with him, she agrees to do it. Back at the squadron, a German cadet on a mercy mission drops a note over the airfield, telling the Americans that one of their pilots who was shot down is alive as a prisoner. At this point Rocky''s plane appears. Not having seen the note being dropped, Rocky attacks and shoots down the young German, who is badly injured but not killed. At the hospital, Rocky finds the German in the next bed. The young man is in agony and is not allowed liquids because of a stomach wound. Eventually he begs for water, saying he is going to die anyway, and Rocky leaves a bottle of wine by his bedside. Then Rocky is told he is being transferred away from the front to become an instructor. While he does not tell anyone, he feels guilty over the German''s death, so the transfer comes as a relief. But before it takes effect, he learns that a young pilot has bettered his record of victories. He flies another unauthorized mission to fight individually against the newest German aircraft. But as he prepares to close in for the kill, he again thinks about the German cadet, and is unable to fire. The Germans see him and shoot him down, but he lives to return home to his sweetheart after the war. In the final scene, he still feels guilty for what he became, and says he has been unable to sculpt. But Nancy is supportive and still wants to marry him. They will get past it together.'
'spy','With the outbreak of World War I, a young woman (Constance Bennett) is unable to purchase a train ticket from Luxembourg to Austria. However, Rudolph "Rudy" Ritter (Gilbert Roland) is attracted to her and gets her aboard a train to Bern, Switzerland. Later, when the train is stopped short of their destination, she slips away while he goes in search of a car. He does not even know her name. Rudy turns out to be a captain in the Austrian Ministry of War assigned to deal with Russian spies, particularly the very successful K-14. He gets a lead when a secret message is intercepted; it contains information about a newly improved flamethrower. Rudy is assigned to Major Lieber (Edward Ellis), the man in charge of the unit developing the weapon. Rudy is delighted when Lieber introduces him to nurse Karen Schöntag, his former traveling companion. Rudy sees Karen every night, and the pair fall in love. However, Karen is actually K-14. She narrowly escapes being caught by Rudy and his men, then is brought in for questioning when she goes to a certain staircase that Rudy knows is being used by the Russians to transfer messages. Rudy refuses to believe she is a spy and does not even search her. Major Lieber, however, notices something odd about one of the books she had with her; one page has been freshly torn out (the one with an invisible message). Faced with the mounting evidence, Rudy sets a trap. He has Russian-speaking Private Muller sent to K-14''s hospital masquerading as a prisoner of war. Muller gives K-14 the Russian recognition signal (two circles) and passes her a message, ordering her to meet an agent at a deserted house at nine o''clock that night. K-14 is suspicious, but feels she must go. Her contact insists on taking her there. After she incriminates herself to "Russian" agent Lehan (Mischa Auer), Rudy is forced to arrest her. Fortunately, K-14''s associate shoots Rudy and knocks out Lehan. He has to drag K-14 away from the wounded Rudy, who also urges her to flee. After the war ends, the two meet by chance at a Swiss train station. This time, Rudy does not let her get away.'
'comedy','Agnes Appleby (Wynne Gibson), waitress at Nick''s Restaurant, gets into a mass fight and escapes with friend Red Branaham (William Gargan). The fight was about her honor. They live together, but the money isn''t coming in, as it should. Red Branaham is caught by the police and put into jail. Her Landlady, Mrs. Spence (Jane Darwell), sets her on the street, as she''s not able to pay back the rent, she owes her. So she goes to her friend Sybby ''Sib'' (ZaSu Pitts), cleaning lady in a boarding house or hotel. She puts her in a room of a man, who''s not expected for some time, so that she can sleep some hours. The man, Adoniram ''Schlumpy'' Schlump (Charles Farrell) comes back home earlier, than what Sybby told him and finds Aggie in his bed. She pretends to be a socialite, from the family of the Appleby''s, but pitiful, she is broke. He is a gentlemen, very much in love with a lady, Evangeline (Betty Furness), whose letter he''s expecting very urgently, beside, he''s looking for a job, though he comes from an institution of a family, the Schlumps. Aggie calls him "an old goose", before she starts her program of remodeling. And helping him finding a job, in the construction site on the other side of the road, she pretends he is Red Branaham. While they are remodeling each other, the true Red Branaham comes out of jail. Schlump asks Aggie to marry him, but she''s not sure whether she still loves Red, and she fears that their different social and cultural background could become a problem. Auntie (Blanche Friderici) and Evangeline pop up at his room, so that Aggie has to pretend to be a maid. Sybby tells her: No, you can''t be in love with two men, at the same time, one is an indigestion! While Agnes sends away Schlumpy, because she is not the right social level for him, convinced that Evangeline is the right one, she finally convinces Red to marry her and become floor walker and change his name into Schlump, he accepting and saying "but my men hood is gone". The status quo of how society stratums are and have to be, is restored, because Aggie tells the men how it has to be.'
'drama','In World War I, pilot Bob King is shot and killed in France. His friends Ted "Lucky" Hunter (James Murray) and Pa Kearns (J.M. Kerrigan) pledge to look after his daughter, Kitty (Evalyn Knapp).[Note 3] Years later, after the war, Kearns, now blind, works at an airport as an engine expert while Kitty is a TWA stewardess. Her father''s friends still look after her as meddling chaperones. A grandstanding Ted flies over the airport, meeting Kitty who is enamored with him. After a night on the town, he flies her back to the airport, but is met by angry mechanics and pilot Dick Miller (Arthur Pierson), who is in love with Kitty and ends up in a fight. Ted soon announces his marriage to Kitty and forces her to quit her job. Dick gets her her job back when Ted is unable to make a living. Rich, three-time divorcee Sylvia Carleton (Thelma Todd) offers Ted a chance to build a radical new aircraft that can fly across the Pacific. A tête-à-tête between Ted and Sylvia in Albuquerque turns into a fiasco when Kitty and Dick arrive to find them both drunk. Kitty leaves angrily for home, boarding a train that Ted and Dick learn is headed for a collapsing bridge. Both men try to save Kitty by flying to warn the engineer. Ted crash-lands on the tracks and wrecks his aircraft, but stops the train in time. Dick flies him back to the hospital with Kitty, as the couple reunites.'
'fantasy','Left alone with a governess one snowy afternoon (Alice''s sister does not appear in this version), Alice is supremely bored. She idly starts to wonder what life is like on the other side of the drawing room mirror, when she suddenly feels a surge of confidence and climbs upon the mantelpiece to look. She discovers that she can pass through the looking glass and finds herself in a strange room where many things seem to be the exact reverse of what is in the drawing room. Strangely, through all of this, the governess does not seem to notice what has happened. Alice looks out the window and suddenly sees a White Rabbit. She follows it to a rabbit hole and falls in. Seeing nobody else there, she comes upon a table with a key to a locked door, and a bottle that bears the sign "Drink Me". In a situation exactly reversed from the book, she grows to enormous size after drinking the bottle''s contents. Unable to pass into the room beyond the locked door, she begins to cry. A cake with a sign saying "Eat Me" appears. She eats the cake, shrinks to a tiny size, and is immediately swept along into a flood caused by her own tears. Many more of her adventures follow, combining sections of Through the Looking Glass with the original Alice. At the end, Alice is awakened from her dream, not by the "pack of playing cards", but by a riotous celebration that goes completely haywire after she is crowned Queen.'
'drama','Ann Carver (Fay Wray) and Bill Graham (Gene Raymond) are college sweethearts who graduate, marry, and go to work. There are major differences in their career success. Ann has a lawyer''s degree, and goes to work at the law firm of retired Judge Bingham. On the other hand, Bill, who in college was a campus football star and voted "Most Popular Man on Campus", lands a low-level job in an architectural firm. She scores a sensational success with her first case (see below) and receives a check for $5000 from her rich client, Harrison. This sets the stage for marital problems, because the very same day that she gets the check for $5000, her husband receives notice of a big raise at work — $10. Ann quickly becomes a famous and wealthy lawyer, while husband Bill continues to slog along as a low-level wage slave. The two realize, and discuss, the strain that the disparity in their incomes is placing on the marriage. They resolve to work harder at their marriage, but it immediately becomes clear that the demands of her job will make it difficult for Ann to tear herself from work. There is also a scene in which Ann resents the fact that Bill will not accompany her to a dinner party because he has to go to work. Eventually, disgusted with the paltriness of his income as compared to his wife''s success, Bill quits his job as an architect and—in hopes of hitting the big time as a singer—becomes a "crooner" at the Mirador, a friend''s nightclub. While working at the club, Bill begins to drink heavily and becomes involved with alcoholic female singer Carole Rodgers (Claire Dodd). In a scene at the Mirador, Ann and a group of friends observe Carole giving Bill a kiss. In fury, Ann throws a handful of change at Bill and stalks out. That seals the rupture in their marriage. Ann misses Bill deeply, and becomes distracted and starts to perform badly at work, but when she tries to contact Bill, Bill refuses to talk to her. Carole loses her job as a result of her drinking and apparently begins spending a lot of time with Bill in his apartment. One evening, while alone in Bill''s apartment, Carole gets drunk, passes out, and falls and hits her head on the arm of a couch, which renders her even more unconscious. Her necklace (a sturdy affair, designed to look like a snake) gets caught on the arm of the couch and she strangles as she is slumped over the side of the couch. Eventually, the necklace slips loose and Carole''s body falls to the floor. Much later, Bill comes in, drunk, after work. He sees Carole on the floor, thinks that she is merely drunk and passed-out on the floor, and himself falls into bed. In the next scene we discover that Bill is on trial, accused of killing Rogers. Ann knows that Bill must be innocent, and wants desperately to defend him. Judge Bingham warns Bill that his case looks very bad, but if he will allow Ann to defend him he will at least have the advantage of a passionately motivated defense attorney. Bingham persuades Bill to allow Ann to act as his defense attorney. The prosecuting attorney''s case is built on circumstantial evidence and his depiction of Bill''s character. Key to the prosecution''s case is its portrayal of Ann as a saintly (beautiful, talented, loving) and wronged wife, and of Bill as a playboy, drunk, and loafer who left his loving wife for a floozie, quit his job to live off of his wife''s money, and gave up hard work to live a life of ease as a nightclub crooner. In her speech to the jury, Ann first points out that it is highly unlikely that Bill killed Carole—he had no motive for killing her. Then, from personal knowledge, she contests the prosecution''s depictions of her as the saintly wronged party. Instead, she says, Bill was the wronged party. She had been obsessed with money and fame and drove him away. She deeply regrets it, she says, and hopes that in this—the last trial of her career—she can convince the jury of Bill''s innocence. In the last scene of the movie, we see Ann and Bill at home together, a happily married couple living in a nice house. We see that Bill has been acquitted, Ann has given up her career, and Bill has become a successful architect with projects showcased in Vanity Fair and House and Garden.[2]'
'drama','After a military officer (Bruce Cabot) gets Ann Vickers (Irene Dunne) pregnant and leaves her, she chooses to terminate the pregnancy. Feeling conflicted and regretful, Ann devotes herself to social work, taking a job in a women''s prison. However, when she tries to improve the conditions there, she loses her job. She instead writes a book about the harsh realities of the prison and begins a romance with a married judge, Barney Dolphin (Walter Huston). This helps her career but frustrates her wish for a family.'
'drama','Lily Powers works for her mean father, Nick, in a speakeasy during Prohibition. Since the age of 14, her father has had her sleep with many of his customers. The only man she trusts is Cragg, a cobbler who admires Friedrich Nietzsche and advises her to aspire to greater things. Lily''s father is killed when his still explodes. Cragg tells Lily to move to a big city and use her power over men. She and her African-American co-worker and friend Chico hop a freight train to New York City, but are discovered by a railroad worker who threatens to have them thrown in jail. She says, "Wait ... can''t we talk this over?" It is strongly implied that she has sex with him to change his mind. In New York, Lily goes inside the Gotham Trust building. She seduces the personnel worker to land a job. Her progress, sleeping her way to the top, is shown in a recurring metaphor. In the filing department, Lily begins an affair with Jimmy McCoy Jr., who recommends her for promotion to his boss, Brody. She quickly seduces Brody and is transferred to the mortgage department. Brody and Lily are caught in flagrante delicto by a rising young executive, Ned Stevens. Brody is fired, but Lily claims Brody forced himself on her. Ned believes her, and gives her a position in his accounting department. Although Ned is engaged to Ann Carter, the daughter of First Vice President J. P. Carter, Lily quickly seduces him. When Ann calls to say she will be visiting, Lily arranges to have Ann see her embracing Ned. Ann runs crying to her father, who tells him to fire Lily. Ned refuses, so J.P. goes to see Lily himself. Lily claims she had no idea Ned was engaged and that he was her first boyfriend. She seduces J.P., and he installs her in a lavish apartment, with Chico as her maid. Ned, pining for Lily, tracks her down on Christmas Day, but she spurns him. He later returns to her apartment to ask her to marry him, but finds J.P. there. He shoots and kills J.P. and then himself. Courtland Trenholm, the grandson of Gotham Trust''s founder, is elected bank president to handle the resulting scandal. The board of directors, learning that Lily has agreed to sell her diary to the press, summons her to a meeting. She tells them she is a victim of circumstance who merely wants to make an honest living. The board offers her $15,000 to withhold her diary, but Courtland, seizing on her claim that she simply wants to restart her life, instead offers her a position at the bank''s Paris office. She reluctantly accepts. When Courtland travels to Paris on business some time later, he is surprised and impressed to find Lily not only still working there but promoted to head of the travel bureau. He soon falls under her spell and marries her. Unlike her previous conquests, Courtland sees she is scheming and self-centered, but admires her spirit nonetheless. While on their honeymoon, he is called back to New York. The bank has failed due to mismanagement, which the board falsely pins on Courtland. He is indicted, and tells Lily he must raise a million dollars to finance his defense. He asks her to cash in the bonds, stocks and other valuables he gave her, but she refuses and books tickets back to Paris. While waiting for the ship to leave, she changes her mind and rushes back to their apartment. When she arrives, she discovers Courtland has shot himself. On the way to the hospital, the attendant assures her that he has a good chance of survival. Lily drops her briefcase, spilling money and jewels on the floor. When the attendant points this out, she tearfully tells him she does not care. Courtland opens his eyes, sees Lily, and smiles at her. Some time later, at a meeting of the bank''s board of directors, one of them announces that the Trenholms have moved to Pittsburgh, where Courtland works at a steel mill.'
'adventure','A beautiful English socialite, Diana Standing (Myrna Loy), and her wealthy fiancé Gerald Hume (Reginald Denny) arrive at the train station in Cairo, Egypt, where they plan to be married. Although her mother was Egyptian, Diana considers herself part of the British upper class. At the station, she is noticed by Jamil El Shehab (Ramon Novarro), a handsome good-natured Egyptian dragoman who enjoys romancing women tourists and freeing them from some of their jewelry. Jamil is immediately captivated by Diana and soon talks his way into becoming her official guide and driver in Egypt. While touring the Pyramids, Jamil manages to be alone with Diana and romances her with love songs. Meanwhile, Diana is also being wooed by Pasha Achmed, her fiancé''s unscrupulous Egyptian business associate. In order to arrange to be alone with Diana, Pasha persuades Gerald to leave Cairo and inspect the aqueduct they are building together. When Jamil learns of the deception, he blackmails his countryman to remain silent. Later Jamil uses his position as a servant to enter Diana''s hotel bedroom, and kisses her in a moment of passion. Although she briefly returns his kiss, Diana angrily fires him. Soon after, she and Gerald set out on a caravan across the desert with a new guide. Undaunted by Diana''s rejection, Jamil follows and soon replaces the new guide. That night, Jamil''s romantic singing has its effect on Diana, who is drawn into his arms again. When she realizes what is happening, she is outraged and strikes Jamil with a whip. On their way back to Cairo, however, Jamil sends the rest of the caravan on one route and tricks Diana into riding to Pasha''s oasis retreat, where she is treated like royalty. When Pasha arrives, Jamil lies to him, telling him that Diana paid him to bring her to Pasha. When Pasha forces himself on her, she cries out for Jamil to save her, which he does, and the two ride off together in the night. The next day, Pasha''s guards catch up to them in the desert, and in the ensuing fight, Jamil kills them all. Left with only one horse, Jamil forces Diana to walk behind him while he rides the horse across the desert. At a desert pool, he forces her to wait while he and the horse drink first. That night, weakened by thirst, hunger, and humiliation, Diana is raped by Jamil. The next day, he takes her to his tribal village, where he reveals his true identity as a prince who worked as a humble dragoman as part of his royal training. When he proposes marriage to her, Diana passively accepts. Later at the ceremony, however, she tosses the ceremonial marriage water in his face, humiliating him in front of his father and his tribe. Devastated by her rejection, Jamil provides her an escort to return safely to Cairo. After she returns, Diana recounts her story of captivity, and the army is dispatched to find and arrest Jamil. As Diana proceeds with her wedding plans, Jamil is still at large. Diana''s prospective mother-in-law worries that his capture will result in a scandalous rape charge, but she is assured that the charge of piracy alone will carry a death sentence. On the day of the wedding, just before the ceremony, the fugitive Jamil returns to her room to sing his romantic song of love to her one last time, placing his life in Diana''s hands and offering his death as a wedding gift if she rejects him again. Realizing that she truly loves him, Diana rides off with Jamil. Sometime later, Diana cradles Jamil in her arms as they float down the Nile together on a boat. When Diana quietly reveals that her mother was an Egyptian, he assures her that he would love her no matter what her background.'
'drama','Small town girl Letty Lawson (Madge Evans) moves to New York City and lives in a boarding house run by Mrs. Merrick (May Robson). Eventually she asks her friend and Mrs. Merrick''s daughter, Carol (Una Merkel), to get her a job at her workplace, an exclusive beauty salon owned by Madame Sonia Barton (Hedda Hopper). Though both Carol and her brother Bill (Edward J. Nugent), who is in love with her, warn her that it is not a fit place for a young woman of good character, Letty insists she knows what she is getting into. After proving herself, Letty is sent on a house call to attend to spoiled, scatterbrained, chatty Mrs. Sherwood (Alice Brady). When she leaves, she discovers her hat has been chewed up by Mrs. Smallwood''s Pekingese. Lawyer Mr. Sherwood (Otto Kruger) returns home and is quite fond of Letty and offers her to go and buy her an expensive replacement. By chance, she meets him again when they both seek shelter from a rainstorm in the same place. Smallwood is delighted when a fear of lightning makes Letty reflexively seek the comfort of his arms several times. They start seeing each other, though nothing very improper occurs. Meanwhile, Carol has a rich, older, indulgent boyfriend, Freddy Gordon (Charley Grapewin), while Jane (Florine McKinney), another salon employee, is secretly seeing Burt (Phillips Holmes), Madame Sonia''s mining engineer son. Finally, Sherwood asks Letty to take the next step in their relationship. She asks for a week to think it over. Carol convinces Freddy to take her along on his business trip to Paris. While seeing her off aboard the ocean liner, Letty runs into the Bartons. When Letty later mentions that Burt is leaving on the same ship as Carol, Jane becomes very upset. It turns out that Burt had promised to marry her the next day after she told him she was pregnant. Though Letty tries to comfort her, late that night Jane leaps from her window to her death. Influenced by the examples of both Jane and Carol (after her first and only love turned out to be a married man who eventually went back to his wife, she became calculating and cynical), Letty turns Sherwood down. Then, she reluctantly agrees to marry Bill. Specifically requested by Mrs. Sherwood, Letty is forced by Madame Sonia to go to her home. When her client notices her engagement ring, she reveals that she is getting married soon. Mr. Sherwood coolly congratulates her. However, on the wedding day, she cannot go through with it. The next day, Mrs. Sherwood asks her husband for a divorce so she can marry Robert Abbott (John Roche), the architect of the new country mansion she had commissioned. She tells him that she will ask for no alimony, as she is independently wealthy. Sherwood is furious, as it is after Letty''s supposed wedding, but is quite willing to let his wife go. Carol, having finally gotten Freddy to propose, goes house hunting. The real estate agent takes them to see the Sherwood mansion. When he reveals that it is being sold because the couple are divorcing, Letty rushes over to the real estate office to stop the sale and be reunited with her love.'
'musical','Chevalier plays a Parisian playboy who finds himself obliged to care for an abandoned baby. The film was directed by Norman Taurog and also stars Edward Everett Horton, Helen Twelvetrees, and Baby LeRoy (in his film debut, as the baby).'
'drama','Dying gangster Joe Valerie (Frank Reicher) reveals the hiding place of a million dollars in loot to his physician Dr. Cornelius (Warner Oland). The sinister Austrian doctor has designs on the money, but must first outwit detective Dwight Wilson (Stuart Erwin) and clairvoyant Patricia Merrick (Dorothy Wilson). The setting is an eerie, possibly haunted house in small town America, where the stash is hidden, and the bodies begin piling up.'
'fantasy','In 1784, shortly after the United States wins its independence, American Peter Standish (Leslie Howard) sails from New York to England to marry his cousin. Upon hearing of a Frenchman crossing the English Channel in a balloon, Peter regrets that he will not be able to see the marvels the future has in store. In 1933, his descendant, also named Peter Standish (Leslie Howard again), unexpectedly inherits a house in Berkeley Square, London. He becomes increasingly obsessed with his ancestor''s diary, causing his fiancée Marjorie Frant (Betty Lawford) great concern. When they have tea with the American ambassador (Samuel S. Hinds), Peter confides to the diplomat with eager anticipation his conviction that he will be transported back 149 years at 5:30 that day. Peter is convinced that all he needs to do is follow his ancestor''s diary, since he already knows what happens, from reading it. He rushes home, and just as he opens the door, he is indeed back in 1784, taking the place of the earlier Peter Standish just as he arrives at the house, then owned by his relations, the Pettigrews. Lady Ann (Irene Browne), and her grown offspring, Tom (Colin Keith-Johnston), Kate (Valerie Taylor) and Helen (Heather Angel) are there to greet him. The Pettigrews, being in desperate financial straits, are anxious for Kate to marry the wealthy American. Peter is determined not to alter the future he has read about, until he sees Helen for the first time. He tries to fight his attraction to her, but ultimately fails. Helen, meanwhile, is being pressed by her mother to marry Mr. Throstle (Ferdinand Gottschalk), but, Helen has determined, even before Peter''s arrival, not to marry. She later confesses to Peter, that she had been dreaming of him, before she saw him. As time goes on, Peter keeps inadvertently giving offense with his unfamiliarity with 18th century customs. People also begin to fear him, as he blunders and speaks of things which have not yet taken place. For example, when he commissions Sir Joshua Reynolds to paint his portrait, he praises another Reynolds work by name, one the painter has only just begun. Kate becomes convinced that Peter is demonically possessed and breaks their engagement. Helen, however, is sympathetic to his difficulties, and falls in love with him. Helen eventually presses Peter for an explanation of his "second sight", which he has only hinted at. Though he refuses to speak openly, she somehow sees in his eyes visions of his modern world, with all its horrors as well as its marvels, and guesses the truth. Knowing he has become disillusioned, living among ghosts born 149 years before his time, and desperately unhappy with the day-to-day realities of her era (including a lack of hygiene and plumbing, and not bathing regularly in what he calls a "filthy little pigsty of a world"), she urges him to return to his own time. He wants to stay with her regardless of the consequences, but in the end, he does go back to 1933. When he visits Helen''s grave, he learns that she died on June 15, 1787 at the age of 23. Marjorie comes to see him, worried about his sanity because he has been saying that he is from the 18th century. Peter believes his ancestor had switched places with him. He tells her he cannot marry her. Peter is consoled by the epitaph on Helen''s grave, and her conviction that they will be together, "not in my time, nor in yours, but in God''s".'
'drama, war','In the late 1920s in Shanghai during the Chinese Civil War, as throngs of refugees flee the rainswept city, a couple of elderly missionaries welcomes guests to their home for the wedding of Dr. Robert Strike, a fellow missionary, and Megan Davis, his childhood sweetheart whom he has not seen in three years. Some of the missionaries have a cynical view of the Chinese people they have come to save. Shortly after Megan arrives, her fiancé Bob rushes in and postpones the wedding so he can rescue a group of orphans who are in danger from the spreading civil war. Megan insists on accompanying him on his mission. On the way they stop at the headquarters of General Yen, a powerful Chinese warlord who controls the Shanghai region. While Megan waits in the car, Bob pleads with the general for a safe passage pass so he can save the orphans. Contemptuous of Bob''s missionary zeal, General Yen gives him a worthless paper that describes Bob''s foolishness. Bob and Megan reach St. Andrews orphanage safely, but the pass only makes the soldiers laugh and steal their car when they try to leave with the children. The missionaries and children eventually reach the train station, but in the chaos, Bob and Megan are both knocked unconscious and are separated. Sometime later, Megan regains consciousness in the private troop train of General Yen, attended by his concubine, Mah-Li. When they arrive at the general''s summer palace, they are greeted by a man, Jones, Yen''s American financial advisor, who tells him that he has succeeded in raising six million dollars, hidden in a nearby boxcar, for General Yen''s war chest. Megan is shocked by the brutality of the executions conducted outside her window. Fascinated and attracted by the young beautiful missionary, the general has his men move the executions out of earshot and assures her that he will send her back to Shanghai as soon as it is safe. One evening, Megan drifts off to sleep and has an unsettling erotic dream about the general who comes to her rescue and kisses her passionately. Soon after, she accepts the general''s invitation to dinner. While they are dining, the general learns that his concubine Mah-Li has betrayed him with Captain Li, one of his soldiers. Later, after General Yen arrests Mah-Li for being a spy, Megan tries to intervene, appealing to his better nature. The general challenges her to prove her Christian ideals by forfeiting her own life if Mah-Li proves unfaithful again. Megan naively accepts and ends up unwittingly helping Mah-Li betray the general by passing information to his enemies about the location of his hidden fortune. With the information provided by Mah-Li, the general''s enemies steal his fortune, leaving him financially ruined and deserted by his soldiers and servants. General Yen is unable to take Megan''s life—it is too precious to him. When she leaves his room in tears, he prepares a cup of poisoned tea for himself. Megan returns, dressed in the fine Chinese garments he gave her. She waits on him in the gentle manner of a concubine. When she says she could never leave him, he only smiles, then drinks the poisoned tea. Sometime later, Megan and Jones are on a boat headed back to Shanghai. While discussing the beauty and tragedy of the general''s life, Jones comforts Megan by saying that one day she will be with him again in another life.'
'mystery','On his first visit to London, a witless American gets involved with a gang of crooks and with the help of a Canadian girl they con their way through a maze of false clues and bungled attempts to find the truth.'
'drama','Set during the Great Depression, Blondie Johnson quits her job after her boss sexually harasses her. She next is evicted with her sick mother but cannot get relief. After her mother dies, Blondie is determined to become rich. She soon gets involved in the criminal circuit and falls in love with a gangster (Morris), whom she convinces to take down his boss. Blondie eventually climbs up the criminal ladder, becoming boss to the "little navy" gang.'
'comedy, drama','Movie star Lola Burns (Jean Harlow) is angry with her studio publicist E.J. "Space" Hanlon (Lee Tracy), who feeds the press with endless stories about her greatness. Lola''s family and staff are another cause of distress for her, as everybody is always trying to take money from the actress. All Burns really wants is to live a normal life and prove to the public that she''s not a sexy vamp but a proper lady. She tries to adopt a baby, but Hanlon, who secretly loves her, thwarts all her plans. Burns decides she can''t stand any more of such a life, and flees. Far from the movie fluff, she meets wealthy and romantic Gifford Middleton (Franchot Tone), who hates the movies and therefore has never heard about Lola Burns and her bad press. They soon fall in love and Gifford proposes marriage. Burns is to meet her fiancé''s parents, but everything collapses when Hanlon together with Burns'' family finds her, and tells the Middletons the truth. Burns feels hurt by the rude way Gifford and his parents dump her, and accepts Hanlon''s suggestion to return to Hollywood with no regrets. She does not know that the three Middletons were all actors hired by Hanlon himself.'
'comedy, drama','In the Gay Nineties, on New York''s Bowery, saloon owner Chuck Connors (Beery), finds that his rival, Steve Brodie (Raft), has thrown a muskmelon at his window. The happy-go-lucky Brodie explains that he threw the melon on a dare. As Connors threatens to fight him, the two learn of a fire in neighboring Chinatown. Both men call upon their volunteer fire brigades, and wager $100 on which will be the first to throw water on the fire. Although Brodie is first to arrive, he finds Connor''s young pal, Swipes McGurk (Cooper), sitting on a barrel placed over the fire hydrant preventing Brodie from using it first. Connors arrives and the rival fire fighters brawl as the fire reduces the building to a smoldering ruin, presumably incinerating the crowd of Chinese trapped inside who had been screaming for help at the window. Brodie vows revenge on Connors, leading to a $500 bet that a fighter, whom Brodie calls "The Masked Marvel," can beat "Bloody Butch" a prizefighter managed by Conners. Conners accepts, and the "Marvel" knocks out Bloody Butch with one punch. After the fight, the "Marvel" is revealed to be John L. Sullivan (George Walsh). Connors meets a homeless girl named Lucy Calhoun (Fay Wray) and takes her to his apartment, where he lives with Swipes, and lets her spend the night. In the morning, he is pleasantly surprised (and Swipes annoyed), to find that Lucy has cleaned up the place and cooked breakfast. Swipes later locks Lucy in a closet and, when Connors finds her, spanks him. Humiliated, Swipes packs and leaves. That night, Brodie invites Swipes to move in with him, which he does. Finding out about Lucy, Brodie attempts to seduce her, thinking that she is Connors'' mistress. She bites his hand, drawing blood, and after learning her identity, he apologizes and asks if he can call on her. They soon fall in love, and Brodie reveals his ambition to run a saloon bigger than Connors''. When two brewers offer to sponsor him if he can bring his name into prominence, Brodie decides to jump off the Brooklyn Bridge as a stunt. Connors bets his saloon against a free burial that Brodie won''t survive. Scheming to avoid actually jumping, Brodie gets a life-sized dummy made up to look like him and arranges for Swipes to throw it off the bridge at the time of the jump. As a crowd of 100,000 gathers at the bridge, Swipes finds the dummy missing. Swipes observes, in dialogue that sounds eerily current to the modern ear, "They were hip to us so they copped it." Despite Swipes''s pleas, and left without any other option, Brodie vows to make the jump anyway, so that no one can say he didn''t take a dare. Meanwhile, temperance activist Carrie Nation and her band of women arrive at Connors'' saloon to tear it down with axes and hatchets. When he sees Brodie lifted in a parade after making the jump, however, Connors encourages the activists to destroy the saloon, which they do. Brodie re-opens the refurbished saloon, and when war is declared against Spain, Connors enlists in an effort to get away from the Bowery, where he is no longer a big shot. When he returns to his apartment to pack, he finds that Swipes has returned and reconciles with the boy. Professional rivals of Brodie''s then find Connors and deceitfully tell him that Brodie did not actually jump from the bridge, showing him the dummy. Connors demands Brodie give his saloon back. Brodie denies using the dummy, and the two have a long fight on a barge in the East River to settle their differences. After Connors returns victorious, he is arrested for assault and battery with intent to kill. Brodie, however, refuses to implicate him. As Brodie recovers, Connors visits his hospital only to begin another fight, but Swipes stops them and urges them to become friends. After they shake hands, Connors dares Brodie to join him in Cuba. At a parade for departing soldiers, Connors tells Lucy to kiss Brodie goodbye, and after she does, she also kisses Connors. The men lament not being able to say goodbye to Swipes, but they soon see, to their delight, that he is hiding in an artillery box on the supply wagon just ahead of them.'
'drama','Rodney Deane (Gene Raymond) is a rich playboy who falls in love with nightclub singer Abby Fane (Carole Lombard). Abby wants him to get a job, so he begins working for his father. She later finds out that he is not taking the work seriously and stills spends his days at the racetrack, so she leaves him. Rodney then changes his name and gets a real job. They are reuinted by Abby''s boss.'
'drama','Married chorus girl rides scandal to stardom.'
'musical','Racketeer Frank Rocci is smitten with Joan Whelan, a dancer at Texas Guinan''s famous Broadway night spot. He uses his influence to help her get a starring role in the show, hoping that it will also get Joan to fall in love with him. After scoring a hit, Joan accepts Frank''s marriage proposal, more out of gratitude than love. The situation gets even stickier when she falls for a handsome band leader during a trip to Florida. Can she tell Frank she''s in love with someone else?'
'drama','Brash detective Butch Saunders is demoted from the robbery division to the bureau of missing persons. Captain Webb, his new boss, is unsure whether Butch will fit in or is on his way out of the police department. Webb assigns Joe Musik to show Butch around. Gradually, Butch earns Webb''s respect and trust. Cases the bureau handles include a philandering husband, a child prodigy who yearns to live a normal life, an aging bachelor whose housekeeper has disappeared, and an old lady whose daughter has run away, among others. Hank Slade works doggedly on one particular case - a missing wife - throughout the film, only to discover that she has been working at the bureau the whole time, right under his nose. When attractive Norma Roberts comes looking for her missing Chicago investment banker husband Therme Roberts, Butch takes the case, making no secret that he is attracted to her, even though they are both married. She, however, keeps him at arm''s length. Butch is later shocked when Captain Webb tells him that she is really Norma Phillips and the man she claims is missing is actually the person she was on trial for murdering (before escaping) and not her husband at all. When Butch goes to arrest her at her apartment, he finds her hiding in a closet. Norma begs him to send the other policemen away, telling him she can explain everything. However, when he returns alone, she has fled. She fakes her suicide by drowning and disappears, but shows up when Butch stages her funeral with a borrowed corpse. When Butch spots her, she tells him that, as Roberts'' personal secretary, she discovered he had a mentally defective, idiotic twin brother, whom he took great pains to hide from everyone. She claims that, facing embezzlement charges, Therme murdered his brother and disappeared. Norma attended the funeral in hopes that he would show up as well. She points a man out. Butch and Norma chase him to his apartment building. Butch tells Norma to remain outside for her safety while he apprehends the man. When he returns, Norma has vanished. The man denies being Roberts, but Butch takes him to the police station. There, to his relief, he finds Norma, who had gone for help. Webb tricks him into admitting he is Therme Roberts, and when Butch learns his gold-digging wife Belle never divorced her first husband (the husband shows up at the bureau looking for her), he and Norma are free to be together.'
'comedy','During a European train journey, a nobleman''s butler Josef (Paul Lukas) is mistaken for his employer Prince Alfred von Rommer (Nils Asther) by a beautiful woman, Marie (Elissa Landi), and he does nothing to disillusion her. In due course, the Prince himself arrives and is mistaken for his servant.'
'drama, war','British Captain Fred Allison (Leslie Howard) bids farewell to his new wife, Monica (Margaret Lindsay), whom he has only known for six days, and sets out for the war. He ends up a prisoner of war (POW), tortured by the fact that his wife has not written to him since the early days of his two year captivity. When a fellow inmate shoots a guard, the prisoners make an impromptu unsuccessful dash for freedom, resulting in much bloodshed on both sides. As punishment, they are locked in a crowded cell for about a month. Finally, a new commandant, Oberst Carl Ehrlich (Paul Lukas), takes charge of the camp. Allison persuades Ehrlich (a fellow Oxford alumnus) to rescind the punishment. One day, a fresh batch of POWs arrives. Allison is delighted to find his oldest and best friend among them, Royal Flying Corps Lieutenant Jack "Dig" Digby (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.). For some reason though, Dig is not as pleased to see him. However, Allison attributes that to their situation. Dig is determined to escape, regardless of the consequences to his fellow prisoners. He does manage to break free, stealing an airplane from the nearby airfield. The Germans find his coat near the dead body of Elsa (Joyce Coad), a woman who delivered fresh food to the camp. Ehrlich writes to the Allies, demanding Dig''s return to stand trial for rape and murder. Allison refuses to cooperate, until he recognizes the handwriting on a letter found in the coat. When he reads it, he discovers that Monica and Dig have been carrying on an affair for the last six months. Allison then adds his signature to Ehrlich''s request. On the strength of Allison''s endorsement, the British do send Dig back. Dig refuses to defend himself, insisting only that he knows Allison''s motive for bringing him back. He is found guilty and sentenced to death by firing squad. The real perpetrator, Strogin (John Bleifer), writes a note confessing to the crime, then hangs himself. Allison finds the note, but instead of notifying the Germans, crumples it up. Just before Dig is to be executed, Allison''s conscience makes him show the confession to Ehrlich. Afterward, Allison tells Dig he will give Monica up. All along, Allison has been planning a mass escape. He seizes the machine gun guarding the front gate, then holds off the guards while his comrades escape. The POWs race to the airfield, overcome the aircrews there, and fly off in a squadron of bombers preparing for their nightly raid. Allison is killed by a grenade. When Ehrlich finds his body, he salutes.'
'drama, war','On the last day of 1899, Jane and Robert Marryot, an upper-class couple, return to their townhouse in a fashionable area of London before midnight, so they can keep their tradition of celebrating the new year with a midnight toast. Although Jane and Robert have been married for some years and have two young sons, Edward and Joey, they are still very much in love. Jane worries because Robert has joined the City of London Imperial Volunteers (CIV) as an officer, and will soon be leaving to serve in the Second Boer War, where Jane''s brother is already fighting in the Siege of Mafeking. Downstairs, the Marryots'' butler Alfred Bridges mixes punch for their toast, while Cook dons her finest outfit to attend the public outdoor celebrations. Alfred has joined the CIV as a private and is also leaving soon. His wife Ellen, the Marryots'' maid, worries about what will become of her and their new baby Fanny if Alfred is killed or seriously injured, but he is confident despite the pessimistic predictions of Ellen''s elderly mother, Mrs. Snapper. At midnight, the Marryot and Bridges families ring in the new century while Cook dances with other revelers in the street. Shortly thereafter, Jane bids an emotional farewell to Robert at the dock when he boards the troop ship bound for Africa, while Ellen tearfully sees off Alfred, who is leaving on the same ship. While Robert is away, Jane''s friend Margaret Harris keeps her company and gives her emotional support. Margaret''s young daughter Edith plays Boer War games with Edward and Joey Marryot using toy soldiers and cannons, which distresses Jane. While Jane and Margaret are attending a comic operetta at the theatre to take Jane''s mind off the war, the relief of Mafeking is announced from the stage, and the audience cheers. Robert and Alfred soon return home unharmed, to the delight of their families, and Robert is knighted for his service. Upon his arrival, Alfred announces to his wife and mother-in-law that he has bought his own pub with money partly provided by Robert, and he and Ellen will be leaving service and moving to a flat, along with Fanny and Mrs. Snapper. As the downstairs staff have a cup of tea to celebrate Alfred''s return, they receive news of the death of Queen Victoria. Robert rides in the beginning part of her funeral procession and the family and staff watch it from their upstairs windows. A few years later, in 1908, Alfred has developed a drinking problem and is managing the pub poorly and getting behind on the family''s rent due to spending the rent money on drink. Ellen and Fanny, now a schoolgirl, are embarrassed and put off by Alfred''s drinking and slovenly appearance. Ellen carefully plans a genteel social evening when Jane Marryot and her son Edward, who is now in college at Oxford, pay a visit to the Bridges'' flat. Ellen does not tell Alfred about the visit and lies to the Marryots that he can''t attend due to a leg injury, but just as the Marryots are leaving, Alfred shows up drunk, acts rudely and destroys a doll that Jane had given Fanny, causing Fanny to run away into the street, where she distracts herself by dancing with some Pearlies. An angry Alfred chases Fanny, attacks the Pearlies, and then stumbles into the street where he is fatally run over by a horse-drawn fire engine. The following year, on July 25, 1909, Ellen and Fanny Bridges encounter the Marryot family again at the seaside, where Ellen explains that she and Fanny are living off the proceeds from the pub, now owned by Ellen. Fanny has become a talented dancer and singer. Edward Marryot has fallen in love with his childhood playmate Edith Harris. The family witnesses the historic flight by Louis Blériot over the English Channel. Three years later, by April 1912, Edward and Edith have married and are spending their honeymoon on a luxurious four funneled ocean liner, which is dramatically revealed by a camera shot on a life preserver on board to be the ill-fated RMS Titanic. Later scenes make it clear that Edward and Edith both perished in the sinking, although the sinking itself, their deaths, and their families'' initial reaction to it are not shown, it is only briefly mentioned in later dialogue. Two years later, in 1914, World War I breaks out. Robert and Joe Marryot both serve as officers, thinking the war will be over within a few months. While on leave, Joe happens upon Fanny Bridges, whom he remembers from their childhood, performing as a featured singer and dancer in a nightclub. He re-introduces himself to her, and they bond while witnessing a Zeppelin air raid on London from the rooftop. She later becomes the star of a theatrical production. Fanny and Joe fall in love and Joe, who miraculously manages to survive the next four years of the war despite all his fellow officers being killed in action, spends most of his leave time with her, unbeknownst to his parents. He finally proposes, but she hesitates to say yes due to the difference in their social classes, although she does love him. Just after armistice is announced in 1918, Ellen, who has found out about Fanny and Joe''s love affair, goes to see Jane, reveals the affair to her, and demands that Joe marry Fanny when he returns. While a surprised and upset Jane is arguing with Ellen, Jane receives a telegram informing her that Joe has been killed in battle. Later, a grief-stricken Jane walks sadly through armistice celebrations in Trafalgar Square. Following the war, a montage shows daily life becoming even more chaotic and the social order being further disrupted, while some advocate that mankind work towards peace. The film ends on New Year''s Day 1933, with Jane and Robert, now elderly, carrying on their tradition of celebrating the new year with a midnight toast to their past memories, as well as to the future.'
'drama','An ambitious mechanic is tempted to desert his wonderful girlfriend when a silly but rich debutante falls for him. Marje is in love with Blackie, the owner of a local garage. Blackie says he loves Marje, but Marje knows that Blackie is truly in love with Glory. Marje tells Blackie to follow his heart and marry Glory. Much to the great dismay of her very wealthy mother, Glory and Blackie elope and settle into Blackie''s bungalow. The newlyweds are happy and an unlikely friendship develops between Glory and Marje. One day, Glory learns that she is pregnant. Seizing the opportunity, Glory''s mother spirits her off to New York so that she can be better cared for while in her delicate condition. The visit to New York turns from weeks into months. Finally, Blackie can wait no longer to see his wife when he learns from Marje that Glory isn''t coming home, but is instead going to Los Angeles. Blackie arrives at the nearly empty New York apartment just as Glory and her mother are about to leave. Glory''s mother tells Blackie that he shouldn''t have come, explaining that Glory has changed. When Glory enters the room, she is distant. She tells Blackie that the marriage was a mistake and wants a divorce. When Blackie asks about the baby, Glory coldly states that the small town doctor was wrong and that she was never pregnant. A despondent Blackie returns home to his bungalow and finds that Marje is there and has made his favorite dinner. The two state their love for each other. It is implied that now Blackie can truly love Marje and that she will marry him.'
'drama','Taxi dancer Madeleine McGonegle (Nancy Carroll) attracts the attention of millionaire Paul Vanderkill (John Boles), and when she becomes pregnant, they get married to avoid a scandal. When the baby dies at birth, Madeleine runs away to Mexico, to give Paul the divorce she thinks he wants. There, she meets "Panama Canal" Kelly (cowboy star Buck Jones), an old friend who proposed to her before he went west. Undeterred by her recent past, he asks her again to get married, and she eventually agrees. When Paul discovers where she is, he shows up just as the couple is about to be wed. When Panama overhears Madeleine confess her love to Paul, he bows out of the picture.[1][2][3]'
'comedy','When news that several paintings by deceased artist Christopher Bean, whose life few people know anything about, may be located at the home of Dr. Milton Haggett, New York art critic Maxwell Davenport and rival art dealers Rosen and Tallant set off for Haggett''s Massachusett''s home. There, the unsuspecting, impoverished Haggett family receives a telegram from Davenport informing them that he will be arriving at noon to discuss his favorite artist, Christopher Bean. Milton and Hannah Haggett and their unmarried daughters Susan and Ada are surprised by the telegram, as they had always regarded Bean as a failed incompetent. Only their homely maid Abby, who is about to quit and leave for Chicago, has fond memories of the dead painter. Before Davenport''s scheduled arrival, Warren Creamer, a former student of Bean who makes his living as a paperhanger, comes by the Haggett house to court Susan. Because Warren''s prospects appear dim, Susan''s social climbing mother Hannah discourages his visit, while the less appealing Ada, who is determined to marry before her younger sister, boldly competes for his attentions. When Warren makes clear his intentions to marry Susan, however, both Hannah and Ada angrily throw him out of the house. A short time later, Tallant arrives at the Haggetts'' and, while posing as the magnanimous Davenport, gives Milton one hundred dollars as payment for Bean''s long-outstanding medical bills. Surprised by his apparent good fortune, Milton happily gives Tallant a Bean painting, which he had been using to stop leaks in his chicken house. When Tallant learns that the back of another Bean painting has been used as a canvas by Ada, he buys her amateurish painting for fifty dollars. Later, after she has agreed to help Susan and Warren elope, Abby is approached by the conniving Tallant, who knows that Bean had a special rapport with the Haggetts'' maid. Abby reveals that Bean painted a portrait of her just before he died, but refuses to sell it to Tallant. Moments later, Rosen shows up at the house and offers Milton $1,000 for any Bean paintings he may have. Before Milton agrees to Rosen''s deal, Davenport arrives and, after identifying himself, explains to the Haggetts that Bean''s work is now worth tens of thousands of dollars. The Haggetts then receive a telegram from the New York Metropolitan Museum, which offers them a sizable sum for their Bean paintings. Inspired by the promise of big money, the Haggetts begin a desperate search throughout the house, but quit when Hannah finally confesses that, years before, she threw a bundle of Bean canvases into a bonfire. Determined to cash in on their old acquaintance, Milton, Hannah and Ada try to trick the still uninformed Abby out of her portrait by offering to buy it for fifty dollars. After Abby refuses to sell, the painting''s true worth is revealed to her, and she angrily decries her employer while admitting that she had saved seventeen canvases from Hannah''s fire and has them packed in a trunk. Despite Milton''s attempts to bargain with her, Abby hangs on to her paintings and prepares to leave for Chicago. In greedy desperation, Milton snatches the canvases from Abby''s trunk, but relents when she confesses that she married Bean on his deathbed and is his legal widow. On the train to Chicago, Abby then ponders the future of the valuable paintings, while the eloping Susan and Warren plan their future together.'
'drama','In London Monica (Helen Chandler) and her boyfriend Harry attend a scavenger hunt party given by Monica''s aunt, Carrie. When nearly everyone wins, Carrie announces a new challenge: women must find a man who has been married over 5 years who is still faithful and men must find a woman over 20 who has never had a love affair. Though Harry has been married over 5 years and Monica is 21 neither fits the other requirement. Monica departs to find her father, Sir Christopher Strong (Colin Clive), a member of parliament, who she knows has always been faithful to her mother. Harry goes to follow her and has a motorbike crash where he is helped by Lady Cynthia Darrington (Katharine Hepburn), a pilot, who he discovers is over 20 and has never had a love affair. At the party Cynthia and Christopher are introduced and Cynthia and Monica become friends. Despite Christopher''s wife, Lady Elaine (Billie Burke), being suspicious of the friendship between Christopher and Cynthia, Christopher puts her off by insisting that Cynthia is a good influence on Monica. After Monica comes home drunk with Harry one night, Elaine tells him if he is an honourable man he won''t see her daughter again. Harry assents and breaks things off with Monica. Upset, Monica begs Christopher to take her to Paris to see Cynthia perform in an aerial show. From there, they invite Cynthia on to their vacation home in Cannes. At Cannes Christopher realizes that he is in love with Cynthia. At a party, when his wife has gone home alone, he lets Monica go home with a strange man, Carlos, so that he and Cynthia can be alone. They confess they are in love with one another, but Cynthia decides to break off the affair before anything can begin. She and Christopher vow not see one another. Months later, Harry has divorced his wife to marry Monica, but refuses to marry her after discovering that she has been with Carlos. Monica decides to kill herself, but before she can, she goes to tell Cynthia, who tells her that Harry will forgive her. At Monica''s behest she also calls Christopher to tell him not to read the suicide note Monica has sent him. He does read it, and in a fit of gratitude goes to see Cynthia. To break things off Cynthia decides to join a competition to see who can pilot a plane around the world the fastest, ending in New York. Christopher, who has been sent to New York City for work, meets her there and the two begin an affair. Christopher has her promise not to fly anymore as he thinks it is too dangerous. Months later Christopher and Cynthia meet in a small out of the way location, where Cynthia admits that she misses flying. They are seen confessing their love to one another by Monica and Harry, now married, who used to frequent the location during the course of their affair and stopped by for sentimental reasons. Monica and Harry tell Elaine and Christopher that they are expecting a child, and both are delighted. At the same time Cynthia learns that she will be unable to return to flying because she is pregnant. Discussing the hypothetical with Christopher, Cynthia learns that if he knew she was pregnant he would leave his wife and marry her out of duty. Cynthia decides not to tell Christopher about the pregnancy. She instead decides to break the world record for height achieved in air. Once the record has been broken, Cynthia takes off her oxygen mask causing her to lose consciousness and the plane to nosedive.'
'mystery','New York Police Commissioner Thatcher Colt (Adolphe Menjou) decides to take a vacation after six years of fighting crime, accompanied by his attractive secretary, Miss Kelly (Ruthelma Stevens). On the train to their destination, they spot a rundown circus, "The Greater John T Rainey Shows", heading to the same place. The circus is home to a love triangle: Josie La Tour (Greta Nissen), her husband Flandrin (Dwight Frye) (whom she is intent on divorcing), and her lover The Great Sebastian (Donald Cook (actor)), all three trapeze performers. Jim Dugan (Harry Holman), the circus''s press agent, recognizes his old friend Colt as the circus parades through town and gives him and Kelly free passes. Josie La Tour''s horse is spooked and runs away with her; fortunately, La Tour escapes unharmed. Dugan takes a reluctant Colt to see Rainey (George Rosener) that night. Rainey tells him that someone is out to destroy his show; each of the principal performers received an anonymous note telling them not to perform tomorrow - Friday the 13th - or they will die. He also cites La Tour''s near accident. Colt, however, suspects that it is all a publicity stunt concocted by Dugan. Kelly reveals that the runaway horse was engineered by Flandrin popping a balloon; she also was able to lipread what Flandrin said to his wife just before: "You double-crossing cheat. I''ll kill the both of you." Rainey also informs Colt that La Tour, the star attraction, owns half the circus. When they go to see Flandrin, they find a note saying that he is the "first to go", a bullet hole in the window of his wagon and blood on his cot. However, there is no body, which arouses Colt''s suspicions. Then La Tour''s beloved dog is found with its throat cut. As Colt is questioning La Tour, someone throws a voodoo doll through her window. The next day, Kelly reports that the blood is not human. Colt surmises that it is dog''s blood, and he noticed an extra member of the "cannibal" troupe last night, Flandrin in disguise. Colt searches the circus for the madman. He advises Rainey to cancel the performance, but La Tour insists on going on with the show. Outside, unnoticed, Flandrin climbs to the top of the Big Top tent. Sebastian is nearly killed when one of trapeze ropes gives way, partially cut by Flandrin, but he escapes unscathed. The audience believes it is all part of his act. Then La Tour performs, also on the trapeze. Flandrin shoots her with a poison dart using a blowgun. She falls to the ground and dies. Afterward, when Colt roams the grounds, he encounters Flandrin, armed with a pistol and holding Kelly captive. He orders Colt to see to it that Sebastian is alone in the tent with La Tour''s body. When he sees people leave the tent, he ventures inside with Kelly, then shoots Sebastian in the back. Fortunately, it is actually Colt in disguise and wearing bulletproof clothing (borrowed from the circus). Flandrin races into the Big Top to put on his last performance, high in the air. At the end, he shoots himself.'
'comedy','Kelly''s daughter falls for a revenue agent, and his divorced wife is after alimony.'
'drama','Calvert College begins taking football more seriously, over the objections of Dr. Sargeant, the president of the school. Coach Gore is brought in and given a free rein, which he uses to pay money to standout players. He is so obsessed with winning that he ignores his wife, Claire. The president''s son, Phil Sargeant, is also an outstanding athlete, but is far more interested in studying chemistry. He is persuaded to join the team, however, and becomes the fourth of the "Four Aces" who begin leading Calvert to victories. Football stars begin feeling entitled to things, including favoritism in the classroom. One of them, Weaver, even makes a pass at the coach''s wife. Phil Sargeant is offended when given a passing grade for a chemistry test he didn''t even complete. He quarrels with the coach and quits the team. Gore catches his wife having dinner with a player and kicks Weaver off the squad. Soon the team is losing games and funds, which even threatens the future of the science department. Phil decides to play again for that reason, and Claire explains to her husband that the dinner was innocent. Weaver is reinstated as well, Calvert wins the big game and the coach offers to quit, but is given a second chance by his wife and the college.[5]'
'musical comedy','Barney Shirrel (Oakie) starts his first semester at Mid West University and works his way up in the fraternity with the help of Tex Roust (Joe Sawyer) and Mondrake (Arlen), an alcoholic college football star. Barney is passionate about engineering and the law, and between his varied studies, football, and the fraternity, he neglects his girl friend Amber (Kornman). In the next term, Mondrake gives his class sweater to Barney''s sister Barbara (Carlisle). His drinking problem intensifies, however, when he learns that Barbara is falling in love with Professor Danvers (Crosby), the singing drama teacher. When Mondrake fails to show up at an important football game against a rival university, Danvers finds him in jail. With the school''s reputation at stake, Danvers has him released and takes him to the football field in time to play in the game. Afterwards, Danvers is called before the college president (Lumsden Hare). Although rivals for Barbara''s affections, Danvers stands up for Mondrake. The college president expels Mondrake for drunkenness and forces Danvers to resign because of his involvement in the matter. Feeling guilty over causing Mondrake''s expulsion, Barbara proposes marriage to him. Later, however, she admits that she is not in love with him, but with Danvers. Mondrake bows out of the relationship, and Barbara rushes to Danvers'' side before he leaves. During the next term, Barney has followed Mondrake''s example and taken up drinking and smoking, which is not appealing to Amber. At the big football game, Barney is in sorry shape. Mid West is losing until he receives inspiration from Tex, who has returned to watch the game. After being knocked out, Barney recovers and wins the game for Mid West. Some time later, Barney and Amber get married and they move to his father''s dairy, where Barney works his way up from the lowest position. Barney and Amber enjoy listening to Danvers singing his song on the radio.'
'drama, romance','Marlene Underwood is a star circus performer, whose husband Walt buys the circus while their son Jimmie worships everything his mother does. Marlene leaves them both to go join a larger show, then is killed in a fire, resulting in Walt going into a downward spiral of alcohol and sorrow. A woman called Lou helps restore Walt''s faith in human nature, but she is resented by young Jimmie, who feels she is trying to take his mother''s place. Walt gets back on his feet, but now must try to stop Jimmie from joining the circus himself.'
'comedy','The plot revolves around the convention of the Honeywell Rubber Company in Atlantic City. Throughout the film, the employees of Honeywell Rubber are mainly concerned with drinking and sex. President J.B. Honeywell (Grant Mitchell) is to choose a new company salesmanager. T.R. Kent (Adolphe Menjou) and George Ellerbe (Guy Kibbee) are two salesmen who both want the job. However, they both get into trouble: T.R. is discredited when jealous saleswoman Arlene Dale (Mary Astor) interferes with his attempted seduction of Honeywell''s daughter Claire (Patricia Ellis) and George attempts to seduce Nancy Lorraine (Joan Blondell). The position of sales manager is bestowed upon a drunken employee as a bribe after he catches J.B. about to visit "Daisy La Rue, Exterminator".[4]'
'drama, crime','Tim Butler (Preston Foster) is elected Mayor of a city known for corruption, unfortunately, he is elected by those who are corrupt. Butler is set up and removed from office, to only be convicted of killing Regan (Warner Richmond), a major member of the political machine. Butler is helped by his loyal assistant, Ellen (Evalyn Knapp) and is eventually exonerated.'
'drama','The story focuses on several days in a critical juncture in the life of George Simon, who rose from his humble roots in a poor Jewish ghetto on the Lower East Side of Manhattan to become a shrewd, highly successful attorney. Earlier in his career, he allowed a guilty client to perjure himself on the witness stand because he believed the man could be rehabilitated if freed. Rival lawyer Francis Clark Baird has learned about the incident and is threatening to expose George, which will lead to his disbarment. The possibility of a public scandal horrifies his socialite wife Cora, who plans to flee to Europe with Roy Darwin. Devastated by his wife''s infidelity, George is about to leap from the window of his office in the Empire State Building when his secretary Regina, who is in love with him, comes to his rescue.'
'drama, mystery','A bank official, whom a doctor had earlier hypnotized to obtain money from the bank''s vault, is found murdered.'
'drama','The film involves an extramarital encounter that leads the wife of the main character into killing herself and her husband. A boss insists that a young executive, with an important job and a long term girlfriend, go out with him to a party and while out at the party he sleeps with a young wealthy woman, Elise (Charlotte Merriam), and contracts a dangerous venereal disease from her. The girlfriend is so upset that she commits suicide.'
'comedy, musical','Janie Barlow (Joan Crawford) is a young dancer who is reduced to stripping in a burlesque show. Arrested for indecent exposure, she is bailed out by millionaire playboy Tod Newton (Franchot Tone) who was attracted to her while slumming at the theatre with his society pals. When she tries to get a part in a Broadway musical, Tod intercedes with director Patch Gallagher (Clark Gable) to get her the job: he will put his money into the show, if Janie is given a part in the chorus. Even though he needs the money, Patch is resistant, until he sees Janie dance and realizes her talent. When, after hard work and perseverance, Janie is elevated to the star''s part – replacing Vivian Warner (Gloria Foy) – Tod is afraid he will lose any chance of gaining her affection if she becomes a star, so he closes the show, and Janie, out of work, goes away with him. Patch starts rehearsals up again using his own money, and when Janie returns and finds out that Tod has deceived her and manipulated things behind the scenes, she dumps him and joins up with her new sweetheart, Patch, to put on the show, which is a smash hit.'
'science fiction','Scientists discover that a violent storm is heading toward New York City and begin the warning process throughout the city. They believe that something is wrong with the natural barometer patterns and that an unprecedented event is imminent. A sudden eclipse of the sun verifies their notions and it seems that global destruction is near. Telegraphs from Rome and London explain days of unending earthquakes and state "The End of the World is at Hand." Tremendous earthquakes hit the Pacific Coast, killing millions and it is reported that the entire western coast of the US has been demolished. The earthquakes have also caused major tsunamis in the oceans and disaster is just moments away. Martin Webster (Sidney Blackmer) and his wife Helen (Lois Wilson) prepare for the disaster by gathering their children and some essentials and head for a high rock formation to escape the floods. Martin goes back to the house to get more food and clothes, but while he is gone from Helen''s side, the destruction of New York begins. Buildings crumble from earthquakes and tsunami waters envelope the city. Martin returns to find his wife and daughters are nowhere to be found. In the aftermath, grief-stricken Martin builds a shelter and tries to survive on his own. In another part of the New York City outskirts, two men, Jepson (Fred Kohler) and Norwood (Ralf Harolde), surviving in a cabin, find Claire (Peggy Shannon) unconscious and washed up upon the shore. After her recovery, the men start feuding about who gets to take care of her and become very possessive. When Claire realizes that the situation is becoming uncomfortable, she flees. Claire is a world-class swimmer, so she swims across the waters for her safety, leaving the men angry and vengeful. Jepson kills Norwood and begins to search for Claire, vowing to bring her back. Claire washes up upon another shore, where Martin finds her this time. Martin and Claire become good friends and eventually fall in love. Meanwhile, in a nearby town, survivors have gathered together to start a new civilization. Among these survivors is Martin''s wife, Helen, and their children. Tom (Matt Moore), one of the townsmen, found Helen in the aftermath, and has been taking care of her ever since. He has also fallen in love with her, but Helen is convinced that Martin is still alive. Jepson teams up with a gang of thugs who help him find Claire and Martin and eventually trap them in a mineshaft. The townspeople stumble upon the situation and save Martin and Claire and bring them back to their new found city. Once they arrive, Martin finds his children and discovers his wife is alive and well and goes to her. Claire and Tom are devastated. After the reunion, Martin explains to Claire how he is in love with both his wife and with her and that he will not choose. Helen visits Claire and they have a painful discussion in which Claire says she will not give up Martin. However, when Claire sees Martin with his wife at the town meeting her heart breaks and she runs to the ocean. She swims away as Martin is left watching her go.'
'comedy, romance','While en route to Paris via train, commercial artist Gilda Farrell meets artist George Curtis and playwright Thomas Chambers, fellow Americans who share an apartment in the French capital. Gilda works for advertising executive Max Plunkett, who has had no success in his efforts to engage her in a romantic relationship. Tom and George each realize the other is in love with Gilda, and although they agree to forget her, they cannot resist her when she comes to visit. Unable to choose between the two, she proposes she live with them as a friend, muse, and critic—with the understanding they will not have sex. Gilda arranges for a producer to read Tom''s play and he goes to London to oversee the staging of his work. During his absence, Gilda and George become involved romantically, much to Tom''s consternation. One night at the theatre he meets Max, who tells him George has become highly successful. Tom returns to Paris and discovers George has vacated their apartment and moved into a penthouse with Gilda. George is in Nice painting a portrait, and Gilda and Tom rekindle their affair. George returns and, realizing his former roommate and current lover have been trysting while he was away, orders the two to get out. Gilda decides to end the men''s rivalry by marrying Max in Manhattan, but is so upset when she receives potted plants from her former beaux she fails to consummate the marriage. When Max hosts a party for his advertising clients, Tom and George crash the event and hide in Gilda''s bedroom. Max finds the three laughing on the bed and orders the men out, and a brawl ensues, prompting all the guests to depart. Gilda announces she is leaving her husband, and she, Tom, and George decide to return to Paris and their unusual living arrangement.'
'comedy','In the early 18th century, the bandit Fra Diavolo returns to his camp in Northern Italy to tell his gang members about his encounter with Lord Rocburg and Lady Pamela. Disguised as the Marquis de San Marco, he rides with them in their carriage and charms Lady Pamela into telling him where she hides her jewels. He orders his thieves to ride to Rocburg''s castle and steal his belongings and Pamela''s jewels. Meanwhile, Stanlio and Ollio have also been robbed, whereupon Stanlio suggests to Ollio that they should become robbers themselves. After an unsuccessful attempt to rob a woodchopper, the duo encounters Fra Diavolo, who orders Stanlio to hang Ollio for impersonating him. Diavolo is then informed that his men have stolen Lady Pamela''s jewels but have not brought the 500,000 francs hidden by Rocburg. Diavolo, again disguised as the marquis, takes Stanlio and Ollio with him as his servants to an inn, where he plans to steal Rocburg''s 500,000 francs, and where, as Diavolo, he again romances Lady Pamela. Stanlio and Ollio mistakenly capture Lord Rocburg, who has disguised himself as the marquis in an attempt to win back his wife. Diavolo''s attempt to find the francs is, however, foiled after Stanlio drinks a sleeping potion meant for Rocburg. Diavolo''s theft of Pamela''s medallion is blamed on young Captain Lorenzo, the sweetheart of Zerlina, whose father, Matteo the innkeeper, has decreed that she is to marry a merchant named Francesco the next day. Lorenzo swears he will prove his innocence before Zerlina is forced to marry Francesco. Meanwhile, Diavolo romances Pamela once again and finds out that Rocburg''s fortune is hidden in her petticoat. Just as Diavolo steals the petticoat, Lorenzo finds out his true identity from Stanlio, who is "spiffed" after a visit to Matteo''s wine cellar. Lorenzo''s soldiers surround the inn and he then duels with Diavolo, whom he bests with a little inadvertent help from Stanlio. The good-natured Diavolo returns the jewels, and when Rocburg will not pay the reward for them to Lorenzo, Diavolo gives Lorenzo the money that he stole from Pamela''s petticoat. While the jealous husband rushes upstairs to confront his wife, Lorenzo gives the money to Matteo, thereby saving him from having to sell the inn. Diavolo, Stanlio, and Ollio are then taken away to be shot by a firing squad. When Stanlio takes out his red handkerchief in order to blow his nose, a bull becomes enraged and charges the group, allowing Diavolo to escape on his horse and Stanlio and Ollio to escape on the bull. Kneesy-Earsy-Nosey was the game of coordination and dexterity played by Stanlio in the picture, to Ollio''s great frustration. The game, which became a fad shortly after the film''s release,[3] consists of clapping the knees, then grabbing one ear with the opposite hand while grabbing the nose with the other hand, again clapping the knees, and then grabbing the other ear with the opposite hand while grabbing the nose with the other hand. Participants attempt to do it with increasing speed. Proficiency seems intuitively easy to acquire but requires time and training, as it involves constant shifting of coordination of the left and right control areas of the brain. Once coordination has been achieved, one can become extremely fast, and proficiency can be regained even after years of hiatus.[4] Both "Kneesy-Earsy-Nosey" and "Finger Wiggle"—another game Stan plays in Fra Diavolo—make a brief appearance in Babes in Toyland when Oliver Hardy''s character (Ollie Dee) tells Stanley''s character (Stannie Dum), in relation to hitting a PeeWee, "If you can do it, I can do it." Stannie then performs both games to disprove Ollie''s maxim.'
'mystery','As murderer Maloney is being executed in the electric chair, he''s willing to expose an underworld mob boss. He is killed by a poison dart before he can tell anything. Inspector O''Brien suspects McGhee, a ward healer and friend of Maloney; Parkhurst, a scholar, philanthropist, and candidate for the prison board; Clinton, a friend of Parkhurst; or Natural, a reporter for the "Chronicle" newspaper. Since McGhee is a nonsmoker and found in possession of a empty cigarette case, he is arrested.'
'comedy','The film concerns itself with the adventures of two men who have set up a failing business as barbers on an Indian reservation. When they are sent by the tribe as representatives to a peace conference in Europe, unbeknownst to them they face constant threats from other attendees. In particular, a group of armaments manufacturers want to ensure that the peace conference is a failure, and do everything they can to sabotage it.'
'comedy','Molly Gilbert won''t accept a marriage proposal from Bill McCaffery unless he promises to quit betting money on horse races. He gives her his word, but Molly is miffed when she realizes he wants to honeymoon in Saratoga, New York due to its proximity to the racetrack. Behind her back, Bill unethically uses money from his dad Pop McCaffery''s plumbing business to continue gambling. He gets on a hot streak, winning $50,000, then buys a horse of his own, cheats by disguising a faster horse as his, then loses all his money. Bill agrees to become a plumber, pleasing Molly.'
'comedy','Teacher Andy is fixated on both Dora who runs a bakery and her doughnuts that he has every morning on his way to teach school. He proposes using the musical talent of his students to perform on a radio show to advertise the bakery. Once on the air bickering mothers of the students fight and brawl with the manager leading listeners to believe the show is a comedy.'
'comedy drama','When spoiled younger sister Valerie Colby (Lucile Browne) becomes engaged to be married to Dennis Moore (George Meeker), a more level-headed Joan (Ann Harding) decides to do the same, not because she is in love, but in order to make something of herself. She chooses unambitious, wealthy playboy John Fletcher (William Powell), who owns a troubled shipping line. She eventually spends the night in his apartment. To Joan''s annoyance, over the following months, she finds herself falling in love. When John shows no interest in marrying her, Joan forces the issue. She arranges for her father, Colonel Sam Colby (Henry Stephenson), to find them in a compromising position. John graciously agrees to do the honorable thing and marry Joan. However, on their honeymoon cruise, he lets her know that he expects her to grant him a divorce after a decent interval. They settle on six months. Joan prods her husband into taking an interest in his family business. To his surprise, he finds that he enjoys it. As the new Postmaster General (Wallis Clark) is a good friend of her father''s, Joan invites him to dinner, hoping to land a government contract for John''s company. Meanwhile, Valerie goes into debt due to her extravagant spending habits and borrows from her big sister over and over again. Joan gives Valerie all she can afford without touching John''s money. Finally, she pawns a ring for half the latest sum Valerie needs, but tells her that it is the last time. That same day, John finally realizes that he loves his wife. However, when he goes home, Valerie goes to John behind Joan''s back and cons him into giving her a check. Joan finds out and tears up the check. In her anger, Valerie blurts out how Joan trapped John into marriage. Disillusioned, he turns to his former paramour, Mrs. Monica Page (Lilian Bond). Joan follows them to Monica''s apartment and confesses all, including the fact that she has fallen in love with him, to no avail. She then tries to salvage her dinner party. To her delight, John shows up and makes it clear that he believes and forgives her.'
'comedy','The wealthy Mrs. Teasdale (Margaret Dumont) insists that Rufus T. Firefly (Groucho) be appointed leader of the small, bankrupt country of Freedonia before she will continue to provide much-needed financial aid. Meanwhile, neighboring Sylvania is attempting to annex the country. Sylvanian ambassador Trentino (Louis Calhern) tries to foment a revolution and to woo Mrs. Teasdale, and he tries to dig up dirt on Firefly by sending in spies Chicolini (Chico) and Pinky (Harpo). After failing to collect useful information against Firefly, Chicolini and Pinky are able to infiltrate the government when Chicolini is appointed Secretary of War after Firefly sees him selling peanuts outside his window. Meanwhile, Firefly''s secretary, Bob Roland (Zeppo), suspects Trentino''s motives, and advises Firefly to get rid of Trentino by insulting him. Firefly agrees to the plan, but after a series of personal insults exchanged between Firefly and Trentino, the plan backfires when Firefly slaps Trentino instead of being slapped by him. As a result, the two countries come to the brink of war. Adding to the international friction is the fact that Firefly is also courting Mrs. Teasdale, and, like Trentino, hoping to get his hands on her late husband''s wealth. Trentino learns that Freedonia''s war plans are in Mrs. Teasdale''s safe and orders Chicolini and Pinky to steal them. Chicolini is caught by Firefly and put on trial, during which war is officially declared, and everyone is overcome by war frenzy, breaking into song and dance. The trial put aside, Chicolini and Pinky join Firefly and Bob Roland in anarchic battle, resulting in general mayhem. The end of the film finds Trentino caught in makeshift stocks, with the Brothers pelting him with fruit. Trentino surrenders, but Firefly tells him to wait until they run out of fruit. Mrs. Teasdale begins singing the Freedonia national anthem in her operatic voice and the Brothers begin hurling fruit at her instead.'
'drama, war','In World War I, American born pilots Lt. Jerry Young (Fredric March) and Lt. Mike "Slug" Richards (Jack Oakie) join the Royal Flying Corps and are assigned to the dangerous mission of reconnaissance over enemy lines. During furious fighting, Jerry loses his air gunners/observers, one after the other, until only Henry Crocker (Cary Grant) is available to fly with him. The two men had previously met and fought. Jerry''s dislike of Crocker grows after Crocker shoots a parachuting German observer who bailed out of a blimp. They eventually become friends of a sort, but Henry realizes that the war is taking a toll on Jerry. After an enemy raid on his base, the commanding officer, Major Dunham (Guy Standing) sees what is happening to his best pilot, and orders Jerry to go to London on leave after Crocker tells him that Jerry is cracking up. Meeting a young woman (Carole Lombard), Jerry carries on a brief affair, before being sent back to the front. With Jerry away, Henry flies a mission with Mike that ends with the pilot''s death because Henry persuaded him to go back for another pass at an enemy. Jerry blames his friend and asks for a different air observer. On his first mission with Jerry, the new recruit, Lt. John Stevens (Kenneth Howell) is shot and then falls out of the airplane during inverted flight during a dogfight with Voss (Robert Seiter), a famous German ace. He has no parachute and falls to the ground. Jerry then shoots down Voss in a head-on pass. Jerry lands near Voss'' crashed airplane and sees that the dead Voss is a young man. Stevens'' death and the killing of the young German are the last straw for Jerry, who kills himself in his and Crocker''s quarters after attending a drinking party in honor of his killing Voss. Crocker finds Jerry dead later that night, and hides the fact that Jerry is dead from the Colonel, who visits to check on Jerry. To preserve his friend''s reputation, Crocker loads Jerry''s body into an aircraft early the next morning and flies toward the front lines, where Crocker stages things to make it appear that Jerry died in aerial combat. The movie ends showing Jerry''s heroic epitaph.'
'comedy','Elmer Kane (Joe E. Brown) is a rookie ballplayer with the Chicago Cubs whose ego is matched only by his appetite. Because he is not only vain but naive, Elmer''s teammates take great delight in pulling practical jokes on him. Still, he is so valuable a player that the Cubs management hides the letters from his hometown sweetheart Nellie (Patricia Ellis), so that Elmer won''t bolt the team and head for home. When Nellie comes to visit Elmer, she finds him in an innocent but compromising situation with a glamorous actress (Claire Dodd). She turns her back on him, and disconsolate Elmer tries to forget his troubles at a crooked gambling house. Elmer incurs an enormous gambling debt, which the casino''s owner is willing to forget if Elmer will only throw the deciding World Series game (which he refers to as the World Serious). Elmer brawls with the gambler and lands in jail, where he learns of a particularly cruel practical joke that had previously been played on him. Out of spite, he refuses to play in the Big Game, and thanks to a jailhouse visit by the gamblers, it looks as though Elmer has taken a bribe, but when he shows up to play (after patching things up with Nellie), Elmer proves that he''s been true-blue all along. Based on the Broadway play by Ring Lardner and George M. Cohan, Elmer the Great betrays its stage origins in its static early scenes, but builds confidently to a terrific climax during a rain-soaked ball game.'
'drama','At a Baptist prayer meeting, the preacher leads a prayer for Brutus Jones, who has just been hired as a Pullman Porter, a job that served the upward mobility of thousands of African-American men in the first half of the 20th century. Jones proudly shows off his uniform to his girlfriend Dolly (and the film''s audience, setting up the contrast with the later scenes in which "the Emperor Jones" parades around in overdone military garb) before joining the congregation for a spiritual. But Jones is quickly corrupted by the lures of the big city, taking up with fast women and gamblers. One boisterous crap game leads to a fight in which he inadvertently stabs Jeff, the man who had introduced him to the fast-life and from whom he had stolen the affections of the beautiful Undine (played by Fredi Washington). Jones was imprisoned and sent to do hard labor. (A stint on the chain gang allows the film its first opportunity to show Robeson without his shirt on, an exposure of male nudity unusual for 1933 and certainly for a black actor. Here and later the director plays on Robeson''s sexual power and, implicitly, on cultural stereotypes about the libidinal power of black men.) Jones escapes the convict''s life after striking a white guard who was torturing and beating another prisoner. Making his way home, he briefly receives the assistance of his girlfriend Dolly before taking a job stoking coal on a steamer headed for the Caribbean. One day, he catches sight of a remote island and jumps ship, swimming to the island. The island is under the crude rule of a top-hatted black despot who receives merchandise from Smithers, the dilapidated white colonial merchant who is the sole Caucasian on the island. Jones rises to become Smithers'' partner and eventually "Emperor". He dethrones his predecessor with a trick that allows him to survive what appears to be a fusillade of bullets, creating the myth that he can only be slain by a silver one. Jones''s rule of the island involves increasing taxes on the poor natives and pocketing the proceeds. The highlight is a twelve-minute spoken monologue taken directly from O''Neill''s play, in which Brutus Jones (Robeson), hunted by natives in revolt, flees through the jungle and slowly disintegrates psychologically, becoming a shrieking hysteric who runs right into the path of his pursuers. This section was written as a nearly autobiographical account by O''Neill, who had gone off to Honduras the year after his graduation from Princeton and gotten hopelessly lost in the jungle, resulting in hallucinatory fears.'
'drama','Kurt Anderson is the ruthless, hard-driving general manager of the Monroe department store. The store is a financial powerhouse because of Anderson''s brutally efficient strategies and autocratic leadership. When a new clothing supplier, Garfinkle, tells Anderson that part of the large first order will be delayed three days because of labor trouble, Anderson cancels the order and instructs his secretary to sue for damages. Garfinkle is ruined, but Anderson doesn''t care. After closing, Anderson discovers Madeline Walters hiding in the store. Broke and unemployed, she is going to apply to work at Monroe''s first thing in the morning. When she finds out who he is, she lets him take advantage of her to ensure she gets a job as a model in the clothing department. With the Great Depression cutting into the store''s business, Anderson demands new ideas from his department heads. When Martin West comes up with an innovative idea, Higgins, the longtime head of men''s clothing does not approve, but Anderson is impressed. He promptly tells Martin to go ahead, and fires Higgins. Seeing promise in West, Anderson makes him his assistant. He tells his new protégé that he must devote himself completely to business and nothing else if he is to get ahead; he asks if Martin is married, and is relieved when the answer is no. Anderson, a compulsive philanderer, holds women in contempt, believing that all they seek is financial security and control over their husbands. He views marital commitment as incompatible with running a successful business. However, unbeknownst to Anderson, Martin and Madeleine have fallen in love. He tells her that he cannot marry until his position is more secure, but, on an impulse, does so anyway, though he keeps it a secret from Anderson. This puts a strain on the marriage. Anderson doubles the salary of employee Polly Dale (Alice White) to keep his nominal overseer, Denton Ross, occupied, leaving him a free hand to manage the store without interference. Higgins tries repeatedly to see Anderson to ask for his job back, but fails. Finally Higgins commits suicide by jumping out of a ninth floor window of the store. Martin is dismayed when Anderson is unperturbed by the news. After the Wests quarrel at a company party, Anderson finds a vulnerable Madeleine alone and gets her drunk on champagne. When she decides to leave, he offers the inebriated Madeleine his upstairs hotel suite to rest and clear her head. After she falls asleep on the bed, he enters the room and rapes her. The next day, an embarrassed Madeleine insists that Anderson leave her alone. During their heated conversation, she lets slip that she is married to Martin. After she quits and threatens to take her husband with her, Anderson tries to get Polly to seduce Martin, but she refuses. He then has Martin eavesdrop on the intercom while he summons Madeleine to his office. Martin learns of the times Madeleine slept with Anderson. Madeleine unsuccessfully attempts suicide with pills, prompting a furious Martin to confront and threaten to kill his boss. Anderson, facing his own dismissal by cautious bankers afraid of his ambitious plans, dares him to do it, even providing a gun. Martin shoots, but only inflicts a minor wound. When employees dash in, Anderson acts as if nothing had happened. Martin quits. Ross manages to contact the store''s frequently absent owner, Commodore Franklin Monroe, and gets his proxy just in time for the vote of the board of 40 directors. Anderson keeps his job. He promptly promotes Garfinkle, embittered and now just as ruthless, to be his new assistant.'
'adventure','Mala is a member of an unspecified Eskimo tribe living in Alaska. He has a wife, Aba, and an infant son. He and the villagers are shown welcoming a newcomer to their village, hunting walrus, and celebrating the hunt. Mala learns of white traders at nearby Tjaranak Inlet from another Eskimo. Mala learns about rifles and desperately wants one, and Aba longs for needles and other white men''s goods. Mala gratefully offers Aba''s sexual favors to the man for telling him about the trading ship''s presence. Mala and Aba travel to the trading ship with their children, where the white ship captain takes all of Mala''s tanned animal skins in exchange for a single rifle. The captain demands that Aba spend the night with him. He gets her drunk and gives her worthless gifts, and has sexual intercourse with her. Mala is upset, but is told by the English-speaking Eskimo Akat that "the white man is always right". Mala and the Eskimos go bowhead whale hunting in wooden boats and with harpoons provided by the white men, and an actual whale hunt and carcass slaughtering is depicted on film. After the successful hunt, two drunken white men kidnap Aba (and prevent Mala from rescuing her) and force her to get drunk. The ship captain rapes Aba, who escapes at dawn. The Captain''s Mate, hunting seals with a rifle, mistakes Aba (passed out on the ice) for an animal and kills her. Mala kills the ship captain with a harpoon (mistakenly believing the captain shot his wife). He flees back to his village with his children. Lonely and needing someone to care for his children and help with the sewing and other chores, Mala takes the young girl Iva as his new wife. But Mala still longs for Aba, and their relationship is a cold one. The Eskimos go hunting caribou by stampeding the animals into a lake and then hunting them with bow and arrow and spears from boats. Mala is haunted by Aba''s death, and after pouring out his grief through dance and prayer he changes his name to Kripik. Kripik''s attitude toward Iva softens dramatically, and they make love. The hunter whom Mala welcomed to the village the previous year returns to his village, and gives Kripik his wife in gratitude. The woman is more than happy to live with Mala, and Mala makes love to her as well. Some years pass. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police[a] establish a post at Tjaranak, bringing law to the area for the first time. Several white men accuse the Eskimos of being savage and without morals, and charge Mala with the murder of the ship captain. Sergeant Hunt and Constable Balk try to find Mala and arrest him, but get lost in a blizzard and nearly freeze to death. Kripik finds them, and saves their lives. Kripik is angry with the men until Hunt explains that they do not want Kripik''s wives. When Hunt asks if Kripik knows Mala, Kripik says "Mala is no more". The Mounties believe Mala is dead, but their misunderstanding is corrected by Akat, who arrives in the village and innocently exposes Kripik. The Mounties convince Kripik to come to the post to answer questions, and Kripik agrees. Several months pass. Hunt and Balk give Kripik the freedom of the post, and Hunt learns about the horrors the white traders visited on the Eskimo. When the Eskimo village moves on to new hunting rounds, Kripik''s family stays behind to wait for him. They begin to starve, and Kripik learns of their plight. However, the rigid and rule-bound Inspector White has arrived at the RCMP outpost, and he demands that Kripik not only no longer be allowed to hunt during the day but also be chained down in his bed at night. Hunt tries to dissuade White, but White insists — and Hunt is forced to break his word that Kripik will not be chained. During the night, Kripik pulls his hand free of the single manacle used to chain him down, but mangles his hand while doing so. Kripik flees the post with his team of sled dogs, heading for his family''s old village. Hunt and Balk pursue him. The rifle Kripik steals proves useless when the bullets are not the right gauge. Kripik is forced to kill his sled dogs one by one for food. In a driving blizzard, Kripik falls short of reaching his family, and is attacked and injured by a wolf (which he manages to kill). Kripik is found by his eldest son Orsodikok (now a teenager), rescued, and fed by his family. The Mounties arrive the next morning, in hot pursuit. Kripik prevents his eldest son from killing the Mounties, and says he will leave and never come back. Kripik departs on foot, but Iva professes her love and goes with him. The Mounties pursue them on foot across the ice, which is breaking up. Sergeant Hunt takes aim at Kripik with his rifle, but cannot shoot him because Kripik has saved their lives and exhibited more honor and decency than white men have. Kripik and Iva escape on an ice floe, Hunt calling out goodbye and good luck to them. Hunt tells Balk that the ice will take Kripik and Iva across the inlet, and that the adults will be able to return to Orsodikok and the other children next spring.'
'comedy','Helen Bauer (Bette Davis) is a glamorous, successful, headstrong, and very liberated New York graphic artist with modern ideas about romance. She is involved with Don Peterson (Gene Raymond) but is not prepared to sacrifice her independence by entering into matrimony. The two agree to wed only to pacify Helen''s conventional immigrant father Adolphe (Alphonse Ethier), whose Old World views spur him to condemn their affair. They form a business partnership, but financial problems at their advertising agency put a strain on the marriage and Don begins seeing Peggy Smith (Kay Strozzi), one of his married clients. Convinced it was marriage that disrupted their relationship, Helen suggests they live apart but remain lovers. When Don discovers Helen is dating his business rival, playboy Nick Malvyn (Monroe Owsley), he returns to Peggy, but in reality his heart belongs to his wife. Agreeing their love will help their marriage survive its problems, the two reconcile and settle into domestic bliss. The plot is unusual for its time in that Helen is not denigrated for her beliefs about marriage and Don is not depicted as being a cad.[1] In addition, although they are sleeping together and unmarried, neither is concerned about the possibility of children, and certain dialog could suggest that they are using birth control.[1]'
'comedy, musical','The film concerns two sign painters (Spencer Tracy and Stuart Erwin) who find themselves blackmailed by a beautiful woman (Marian Nixon) determined to force Tracy''s character into marriage. The film was directed by Harry Lachman.'
'drama','Fast Workers is set in the early 1930s, in the time of the film''s release. It portrays the freewheeling lives and romantic escapades of two friends who work as riveters on high-rise construction projects. Gunner Smith (John Gilbert) is a rake who loves women but hates the notion of emotionally committing to any of his romantic conquests. His close friend Bucker Reilly, however, is just the opposite, often losing his heart to the various "dames" he meets and quickly becoming entangled with them. Gunner therefore sees it as his ongoing duty as a pal to save Bucker from rushing headlong to the altar. True to form, Bucker one evening after work meets and becomes enamored with Mary (Mae Clarke), not knowing that she is one of the women whom Gunner dates regularly, although not seriously. He is also unaware that Mary generally supports herself by fleecing men of their money. Once she learns that Bucker has a nest egg of $5,000 in the bank, she accepts his rather clumsy marriage proposal. Gunner soon learns of his friend''s engagement, but he waits too long to scuttle the marriage plans. By the time he reveals to Bucker his own involvement with Mary, Bucker has already married her. Bucker''s anger builds over his perceived betrayal, and the next day while working at their construction site, he tries to kill his friend by sabotaging a walkway between two iron girders. As a result, Gunner falls, is seriously injured, and is given little chance to live. Wracked with guilt, Bucker tells Mary what he has done. She is furious. She tells him their brief marriage is over and that if Gunner dies she will make sure he is convicted of murder and is executed. She then openly admits her feelings for Gunner, as well as to her wanton past. By the time Mary and Bucker arrive at the hospital, they learn that Gunner is now awake and will survive after all. Gunner deflects Bucker''s bedside attempt to confess his murderous intent and in a roundabout way says he forgives him. Both men now turn their wrath on Mary, who is ordered out of the hospital room. After she departs, Bucker begins ogling the attending nurse, who smiles at him. Gunner now thwarts his friend''s romantic intentions yet again by tossing a coin on the floor behind the nurse as she now leaves the room. Disgusted by the ploy, which intends to get her to bend over to retrieve the coin and insinuates that her affections can be bought, the nurse turns and glares at Bucker, thinking he had done it. "Please forgive him," Gunner pleads facetiously from his bed, "He was born with a dirty brain." The film ends with the reconciled friends squabbling once more over their differences in how they relate to women.'
'comedy, drama','Alison Drake (Ruth Chatterton) is the wealthy owner and hard-driving, no-nonsense head of a large automobile company, inherited from her father. Her work has caused her to lose her youthful romanticism, and she has casual affairs with men, including her own employees. Alison hosts a party at her mansion, but becomes fed up with the men out to either sell her things or marry her for her money. She dresses down and goes to an amusement park, where she picks up a man at a shooting gallery. They have fun together, but he refuses her offer to go home with him. The next day, they meet again at her factory. To their mutual astonishment, he turns out to be Jim Thorne (George Brent), a gifted engineer she has ordered her underlings to hire away from her competition. Saying that she has no time now, Alison has him come to her mansion that night, supposedly to discuss his plans for the company in detail. She attempts to seduce him, but he rejects her as anything other than his employer. Annoyed, she turns to her assistant, Pettigew (Ferdinand Gottschalk), for advice. He tells her that men want women who are softer and less independent, so she adjusts her tactics. She tricks Jim into a picnic and wears him down. In the end, he succumbs to her charms. The next day, he shows up at her office with a marriage license, but she informs him that she likes their relationship just the way it is. Outraged, he quits. Alison has another problem on her hands. Her company needs more financing to survive, but another firm is intent on taking advantage of the situation to take over and has gotten the local banks to turn her down. She sets up an appointment to meet with bankers in New York City, but then breaks down when she realizes that she cannot live without Jim. She has the police track down which way he went and drives off after him. She eventually finds him (at another shooting gallery) and tells him that she is willing to get married. Then, he realizes that they can fly to New York in time to save her company. Even so, she tells him that he will run the firm, while she has nine children.'
'action','The "Black Cats", who are part of the Aerial Circus run by "Speed" Hardy (Ralph Bellamy), are a vagabond troupe of aerial performers in the 1930s. Speed takes on a new performer, former airmail pilot Ace Murray (Bruce Cabot). After performing a "double parachute" jump with his kid brother Bud (Eric Linden), who is also a pilot, Ace becomes aware that his brother is enamoured with Speed''s young wife Ann (Arline Judge). Bud and Ann perform the dangerous double parachute jump together, becoming the show''s main attraction, but Speed becomes jealous of the romance forming between them. After a flight together, Bud and Ann crash-land and spend a night in a deserted cabin, leading to the realization that Ann must seek a divorce. When Speed discovers them, he apparently agrees to the new circumstances and surprisingly offers to design a new aerial stunt for Bud and himself that will have two aircraft colliding "head-on", with both of the pilots bailing out before the impact. Before the stunt takes place, another pilot who is usually inebriated, "Screwy" Edwards (Cliff Edwards), reveals that Speed has deliberately cut his rival''s parachute and is planning an aerial murder. Ace takes off and crashes into Speed, sacrificing his life to save his brother. The two lovers eventually marry and due to Ace''s earlier help in obtaining a job for him, Bud begins an airline career as a pilot alongside Edwards, who has begun a rehabilitation.'
'musical','Composer Roger Bond (Gene Raymond) and his orchestra are appearing in Miami, with vocalist Honey Hales (Ginger Rogers). Despite the warnings of accordionist and assistant band leader Fred Ayres (Fred Astaire), Roger is attracted to the beautiful and flirtatious Belinha (Dolores del Río) in the audience. He leaves the bandstand to pursue her. Doña Elena (Blanche Friderici), Belinha''s chaperone, is informed of this, and arranges for Roger and the band to be fired. But Roger pursues Belinha to Brazil, and organises an engagement for the band at the Hotel Atlântico in Rio de Janeiro, unaware that the hotel is owned by Belinha''s father (Walter Walker). Roger persuades Belinha to allow him to fly her there in his private plane, which runs into trouble inflight, forcing a landing on an apparently deserted island. Under the moonlight, she falls into his arms, while admitting to him that she is already engaged. In Rio, Roger informs his good friend Julio (Raul Roulien) that he has fallen in love, but finds out that Belinha is engaged to Julio. During rehearsals for the Hotel''s opening (a brief bit of Astaire tap), Fred is told by police that the hotel lacks an entertainment license. When Roger spots a plane overhead, he comes up with the idea of strapping dancing girls to planes, with Fred leading the band and Honey and Julio leading the planes. The show is a great success and the hotel''s future guaranteed. Julio gives Belinha up to Roger while Fred and Honey celebrate.[2][3]'
'comedy, musical','Chester Kent (James Cagney) replaces his failing career as a director of Broadway musicals with a new one as the creator of musical numbers called "prologues", short live stage productions presented in movie theaters before the main feature is shown. He faces pressure from his business partners to constantly create a large number of marketable prologues to service theaters throughout the country, but his job is made harder by a rival who is stealing his ideas, probably with assistance from someone working inside his company. Kent is so overwhelmed with work that he doesn''t realize that his secretary, Nan (Joan Blondell), has fallen in love with him, and is doing her best to protect him as well as his interests. Kent''s business partners announce that they have a big deal pending with the Apolinaris theater circuit, but getting the contract depends on Kent impressing Mr. Apolinaris (Paul Porcasi) with three spectacular prologues, presented on the same night, one after another at three different theatres. Kent locks himself and his staff in the offices to prevent espionage leaks while they choreograph and rehearse the three production numbers. Kent then stages "Honeymoon Hotel", "By a Waterfall", featuring the famous ''Human Waterfall'', and "Shanghai Lil", featuring Cagney and Ruby Keeler dancing together.'
'drama','Retired Papa Strauss, a widower, who has been a successful dye manufacturer, is being shifted around from one married-son''s home to the other, and is not welcome at all because his daughters-in-law object to his smelly pipe smoking. Finally the family tucks him ''out of sight and out of mind'' into a nursing home, with very little ''honor thy father'' thought given to it. However, unmarried daughter, Lena, who loves her father dearly, with help from an inheritance from her uncle, and her chemist fiancée, who has new patented technology, sets up a new dye works with her father as head. They make a home for him. New company steals business from sons'' company and finally has to bail them out. Sons and their wives attitudes finally change.'
'comedy, fantasy','When the film opens, U.S. President Judson C. ''Judd'' Hammond (Huston) is variously described as "a Hoover-like partisan hack"[4] or "basically a do-nothing crook, based on, to some extent, Warren G. Harding." Then he causes a near-fatal automobile accident and goes into a coma. Through what Portland State University instructor[5] Dennis Grunes calls "possible divine intervention,"[6] (characterized by a breeze blowing through a closed window) Hammond awakens as a decisive man of action. President Hammond makes "a political U-turn,"[3] purging his entire cabinet of "big-business lackeys." When Congress impeaches him, he responds by declaring martial law, dissolving the legislative branch, assuming the "temporary" power to make laws as he "transforms himself into an all-powerful dictator."[7] He orders the formation of a new "Army of Construction" answerable only to him and nationalizes the manufacture and sale of alcohol.[4] The reborn Hammond''s policies include "suspension of civil rights and the imposition of martial law by presidential fiat."[8] He "tramples on civil liberties,"[9] "revokes the Constitution, becomes a reigning dictator," and employs "brown-shirted storm troopers", called "Federal Police",[10] led by the President''s top aide, Hartley ''Beek'' Beekman (Tone). When he meets with resistance from the organized crime syndicate of ruthless Al Capone analog Nick Diamond, the President "suspends the law to arrest and execute ''enemies of the people'' as he sees fit to define them," with Beekman handing "down death sentences in his military star chamber" in a "show trial [that] resembles those designed to please a Stalin, a Hitler or a Chairman Mao,"[8] after which the accused are immediately lined up against a wall behind the courthouse and "executed[4]by firing squad."[11] By threatening world annihilation with America''s newest and most deadly secret weapon, Hammond then blackmails the world into disarmament, ushering in global peace.[12] At the very moment the other nations of the world finish acceding to his "covenant" of world disarmament, Hammond, his supposed divine mission completed, suffers a fatal stroke which also seems to be divinely attributable (again a breeze through a closed window), and the story ends. Despite revoking the Constitution and all the other actions he has taken, Hammond is not portrayed as the villain of the piece, but rather as the one who "solves all of the nation''s problems",[10] "bringing peace to the country and the world,"[13] and is universally acclaimed "one of the greatest presidents who ever lived."[11] The Library of Congress comments:'
'comedy, drama','Ace Corbin (Cary Grant) a charming Chicago gangster is acquitted of murder charges, which was framed by Pete Manning (Jack La Rue) decides to reform and begin a new life in California. On the train, he falls in love with Eleanor La Velle (Benita Hume) a gambler''s girlfriend. They both conceal their true identities and has adopted new aliases. In Southern California, Eleanor discovers that her lover, Joe Burke owner of the Casino Del Mar steamer, which operates legally outside the three-mile limit from the harbor is in debt for $9,000. Because Pete Manning''s thugs are ruining his business. Eleanor chooses to remain loyal and help Joe with his business, rather than desert and leave him for Ace. Joe and his right-hand man Blooey (Roscoe Karns) offer to turn over the casino to Ace, so he can improve the business and seek vengeance on Manning. Ace resists becoming involved until Manning''s men threaten him. When Ace runs the casino he thwarts Manning''s customers by commandeering the water taxis over to his steamship instead. The first evening, Ace encounters Eleanor on board the ship and she discovers his true identity. Eleanor who is still in love with Ace remains on the ship, even after Manning''s men cause an explosion and fire on board. When the customers have left the ship safely and the fire is out, Ace and Eleanor remains on board for the night. In the morning, the district attorney questions them both and Ace discovers Eleanor''s real identity, including her relationship with Joe. Also in attendance is Joe, who likewise discovers Ace and Eleanor''s relationship. Back aboard the casino steamship, during a storm Joe and Ace accuse Eleanor of being a two-timer and lying to them both. Meanwhile, Manning and his man sneak on board the ship and kills Joe. Blooey releases the anchor and the crashing waves wash Manning and his man off the deck. Ace, Blooey, and Eleanor jump to safety with life preservers. later, on a train Ace and Eleanor are married.'
'drama, mystery','Kay Curtis (Glenda Farrell) and June Dale (Mary Brian) are two showgirls living in the Palm Beach hotel. When June refuses one of her wealthy male friend''s sexual advances, he chooses to let June and Kay pay for their own hotel bills. They decide to ask Daisy Bradford (Peggy Shannon), who is engaged to millionaire Henry Gibson (Ben Lyon), for help paying the bills because Daisy used to be a fellow showgirl. However, Daisy pretends not to know them. Kay tries to win some money gambling, but ends up losing all their money instead. When they run into Daisy''s former boyfriend Raymond Fox (Lyle Talbot) in the hotel, he offers them some money to leave town, but June and Kay accidentally miss the train. Later, Henry and Daisy are married, but Daisy goes missing, and a gangster named Jim Hendricks is found dead in the hotel''s garden. Henry offers a large reward to the public for any information about Daisy. Kay and June decide to find Daisy and claim the reward. After Henry, Kay, and June survive a near fatal car accident, Kay suggests that they wreck the car and declare Henry dead from the automobile accident. When Daisy returns to the hotel after Henry''s assumed death, she claims that Henry had drugged and kidnapped her and killed Jim Hendricks. However, Kay pulls a gun on Daisy and she confesses that she was going to run away with Raymond, and when Jim Hendricks tried to stop them, Raymond killed him. Raymond and Daisy are arrested by the police, and Henry gives the reward to Kay. Later, Henry decides to marry June, who he has fallen in love with.'
'comedy, musical','The film tells how an infatuated school-teacher, Sylvia Bruce, follows Bill Williams, a popular crooner, to Hollywood where he is to make a picture. On board the train she obtains a job as maid to Bill''s French fiancee and leading lady, Lili Yvonne, and meets the film''s director, Conroy, and promoter, Baker. On arrival in Hollywood she is befriended by Jill and shares her rooms. At the Independent Art Studio in Hollywood, where the film is being made, Lili''s temperament and lack of talent cause Conroy much concern. Eventually, after losing her temper with a woman who asks for her autograph, Lili refuses to continue unless the woman is removed from the Studio. She is persuaded to stay and production continues with her singing ''Cinderella''s Fella'' but Conroy is still not satisfied and an angry Lili walks out. Sylvia impersonates Lili''s version of the song and ends with an imitation of Lili''s tantrums. Lili returns in time to hear Sylvia and there is a brawl in which Lili gets a black eye. Baker, who has also heard Sylvia, intervenes by firing Lili and engaging Sylvia for the part. Baker asks Sylvia to accompany him to a party but withdraws when Bill expresses his own interest in her. Bill takes Sylvia to dinner and the party but a quarrel ensues and she accuses him of insincerity. Bill deserts the film and goes with Lili to Tijuana where, drinking heavily, he receives a telephone call from the Studio with the ultimatum that if he does not return they will get a replacement. Lili advises him to let them do so and suggests that they fly together to New York and on to Paris. Sylvia finds him and pleads for him to come back to the Studio but returns without him. In Hollywood there is difficulty with the player chosen to replace Bill and eventually Bill finally appears at the Studio to rejoin Sylvia in the film''s closing sequence to sing ''Our Big Love Scene''. The song ''Beautiful Girl'' is sung by Crosby at the beginning of the film before his departure for Hollywood when technicians arrive to record it. When he boards the train at Grand Central Terminal there is a big production number where he and the chorus sing ''Going Hollywood''. He also sings a few lines of ''Just an Echo in the Valley''. Crosby is also heard singing ''Our Big Love Scene'' on the radio when Jill is showing Sylvia her apartment. ''We''ll Make Hay While the Sun Shines'' is a dream-sequence production number with thunderstorm effects at the Studio and is featured by Crosby, Marion Davies, chorus and dancers. An impersonation act by The Radio Rogues is also filmed at the Studio and includes imitations of Kate Smith (''When The Moon Comes Over The Mountain''). Russ Columbo (''You Call It Madness But I Call It Love''), Morton Downey (''Remember Me?'') and Rudy Vallee (''My Dime Is Your Dime''). Crosby sings ''After Sundown'' at the party. ''Temptation'' was an early film attempt to fit a song into the story pattern and was presented dramatically by Crosby whilst drinking tequila in a bar at Tijuana.[2]'
'musical','The "gold diggers" are four aspiring actresses: Polly (Ruby Keeler), an ingenue; Carol (Joan Blondell), a torch singer; Trixie (Aline MacMahon), a comedian; and Fay (Ginger Rogers), a glamour puss. The film was made in 1933, during the Great Depression and contains numerous direct references to it. It begins with a rehearsal for a stage show, which is interrupted by the producer''s creditors who close down the show because of unpaid bills. At the unglamorous apartment shared by three of the four actresses (Polly, Carol, and Trixie), the producer, Barney Hopkins (Ned Sparks), is in despair because he has everything he needs to put on a show, except money. He hears Brad Roberts (Dick Powell), the girls'' neighbor and Polly''s boyfriend, playing the piano. Brad is a brilliant songwriter and singer who not only has written the music for a show, but also offers Hopkins $15,000 in cash to back the production. Of course, they all think he is kidding, but he insists that he is serious – he offers to back the show, but refuses to perform in it, despite his talent and voice. Brad comes through with the money and the show goes into production, but the girls are suspicious that he must be a criminal since he is cagey about his past and will not appear in the show, even though he is clearly more talented than the aging juvenile lead (Clarence Nordstrom) they have hired. It turns out, however, that Brad is in fact a millionaire''s son whose family does not want him associating with the theatre. On opening night, in order to save the show when the juvenile cannot perform (due to his lumbago acting up), Brad is forced to play the lead role. With the resulting publicity, Brad''s brother J. Lawrence Bradford (Warren William) and family lawyer Fanuel H. Peabody (Guy Kibbee) discover what he is doing and go to New York to save him from being seduced by a "gold digger". Lawrence mistakes Carol for Polly, and his heavy-handed effort to dissuade the "cheap and vulgar" showgirl from marrying Brad by buying her off annoys her so much that she plays along, but the two fall in love. Meanwhile, Trixie targets "Fanny" the lawyer as the perfect rich sap ripe for exploitation. When Lawrence finds out that Brad and Polly have wed, he threatens to have the marriage annulled, but relents when Carol refuses to marry him if he does. Trixie marries Fanuel. All the "gold diggers" (except Fay) end up with wealthy men.'
'drama','An ambitious grain trader Chris Martin (Chester Morris), who through fair and foul means corners the wheat market and becomes a millionaire. Outgrowing his humble farm beginnings, Chris makes a bid for respectability by marrying Chicago socialite Cynthia Flint (Genevieve Tobin). Meanwhile, Chris''s ex-sweetheart Ellen (Julie Haydon) marries his down-to-earth brother Walt (Richard Arlen), who has chosen to remain on the family farm. Inevitably, the two brothers find themselves on opposite sides when Chris''s greed overtakes his common sense.'
'comedy','Famous author Kenneth Bixby would like to reignite a romance with ex-sweetheart Julie. There are two people who''d prefer that Bixby stick to writing and stay away from Julie, Julie''s husband Harvey, and Bixby''s loyal secretary Anne, who''s been carrying a torch for her boss for years.'
'comedy','Chester Hamilton (Sidney Blackmer) is sent to "alimony jail" for non-payment of alimony to Sandra (Mayo Methot). Hamilton''s valet, Oswald Groggs (Charles Ruggles), uses his boss’s reservations at an exclusive resort to go on vacation under the assumed identity of wealthy eccentric "Sir Oswald". Phyllis Van Kamp (Verree Teasdale) tries to marry "Sir Oswald" for his money. When Oswald seems to fall for her, the question is who will be left standing at the altar. Chester''s trusted secretary (Phyllis Barry) and a reporter (Ray Walker) witness all these shenanigans.'
'comedy, romance','A waiter, Peter Stanislavsky (Lukas), learns the game of bridge as a favor to his new bride Marcia (Young), whose entire family excels at that card game. When he gets lucky and defeats a bridge champion, Cedric Van Dorn (Gottschalk), he jokingly claims "the Stanislavsky method" is how he was victorious, and soon becomes world-famous as a bridge expert. Trouble ensues when Peter and Marcia form a team to play in bridge tournaments, whereupon know-nothing Peter suddenly begins behaving like a know-it-all, questioning Marcia''s play and causing tempers to flare. She brings him back to his senses just in time.'
'comedy','Mae Knight (Joan Blondell) and Sadie Appleby (Glenda Farrell), chorus line dancers in a New York City burlesque show, are visited by a former showgirl acquaintance (an uncredited Noel Francis) who received a rich settlement for breach of promise from a married man she met in Havana. Sadie decides they will follow her example. Pretending that Mae''s mother in Kansas is sick, they get Herman Brody (Allen Jenkins) to promise to give them $1500. Herman does not have the money himself, but convinces his boss, Butch O''Neill, to loan it to him the money. Unfortunately, Herman loses the money gambling (in Butch''s own casino). Insurance salesman Otis needs one more sale to get a $5000 bonus, so he offers Herman $1500 to buy a policy. Herman insures Mae''s life, with him as the beneficiary. In Havana, Sadie and Mae pretend to be rich widows. They think they have it made when they find Deacon R. Jones (Guy Kibbee), a wealthy horse breeder who cannot afford a scandal, in their bed by mistake. However, Mae is smitten with Deacon''s handsome son Bob (Lyle Talbot), but finds out that Bob has no money of his own. When Mae and Sadie encounter Deacon''s wife, they realize that a marriage proposal from him is out of the question. Their alcoholic lawyer, Duffy (Frank McHugh), advises them to trap Deacon in a scandalous situation and blackmail him instead. Meanwhile, the bank calls to verify the forged check. Panicking, Herman goes to see Otis, only to discover that he has lost his job and left town. When he tries to track Sadie and Mae down, he learns that they are not in Kansas. Herman follows them to Havana. He meets Duffy in a local bar. Duffy talks him into playing Mae''s outraged husband. Duffy has Deacon kidnapped, but he resists the attempt to frame him. Butch finds Herman, but he only wants him to return to work because his luck has been bad ever since Herman left. Bob decides to get a job in New York and marry Mae, and Sadie marries Herman.'
'drama','Bill Allen (William Gargan) and his friend, Mike (Wallace Ford) are newsreel photographers who have a friendly rivalry, each willing to do whatever it takes to get the better footage of a story. When covering a beauty contest, Bill plans to rig the results by bribing the judges, thus enabling him to get the scoop on his rival cameramen, and already have pictures of the winner. While covering the event, he meets a reporter, Jane Mallory (Frances Dee), who is a straight arrow, in contrast to the loose women that Bill seems to attract. A professional rivalry simmers between the two, and when they both cover an earthquake in California, Bill begins to fall for Jane. Jane rebuffs his advances, letting Bill know that she has a fiancé down in Mississippi, a banker by the name of Hal Caldwell (Ralph Bellamy). As time goes by, they continue to run into each other. Eventually, Jane begins to reciprocate Bill''s affection, but his reputation as a womanizer makes her continue to resist. At one point, Bill is trying to get her to break off her engagement to Hal, and marry him instead, and just as she begins to weaken, he hears of a huge fire back in New York, and rushes off, leaving her in the lurch. After he leaves, Jane sends word to her boss that she is quitting, and heads down to Mississippi to marry Hal. At the fire, he meets up with his friend Mike, but the meeting ends tragically, when Mike is killed in the fire, attempting to get the perfect shot. Disconsolate over losing both his girl and his best friend, he intends to resign his job, until his boss sends him down to Mississippi to cover the failure of a levee, which has led to massive flooding. While covering the flood, Bill uncovers the corruption which led to the faulty construction of the levee, resulting in the levee''s failure. He also begins to win back the affection of Jane. He heads back to New York with the footage. When Jane and Hal realize that a friend of theirs, Judge Beacon (Henry Walthall), is the father-in-law of the person responsible for the corruption, they rush off to New York, where they attempt to get Bill to destroy the evidence implicating their friend. He doesn''t, and when the newsreel comes out, the Judge commits suicide in disgrace. Jane resolves to return to Mississippi with Hal, but she can''t resist covering one more story, that of taking the confession of a gangster''s moll. When the story is published, Jane is kidnapped by the gangster. Bill realizes his own contact in the crime world, Ricci (Jack LaRue), will know where they have taken, and dupes Ricci into revealing where she is being held. Bill and Hal rush to her rescue, arriving at the same time as the police. Ever the newsman, during the ensuing siege and shootout, Bill manages to get some excellent footage for the newsreels. Jane realizes that she is truly in love with Bill, and agrees to marry him, which is caught by the newsreel cameras. Hal returns to his very staid life in Mississippi.'
'drama, war','In 1918 during World War I, the United States Navy submarine AL-14 is sent with the rest of Submarine Flotilla 1 to Taranto to fight in the Adriatic Sea. The submarine''s commander was wounded on its last cruise, and Lieutenant Thomas Knowlton (Robert Montgomery), his second in command, expects to be promoted and take his place. However, Lieutenant Commander T. J. Toler (Walter Huston) shows up and takes over. Toler orders his officers to attend a ball. The young men dread having to dance with the wives of admirals, but Knowlton and his close friend and shipmate, Lieutenant Ed "Brick" Walters (Robert Young), are pleasantly surprised to discover the beautiful Joan Standish (Madge Evans) among the attendees. When an enemy air raid forces everyone to take shelter, Knowlton takes Joan to his apartment. Though she insists on leaving, he can tell she is attracted to him. However, before anything can happen, Toler shows up to collect his daughter. On its next patrol, the AL-14 torpedoes a German minelayer. After the Germans abandon ship, Toler sends Brick and three sailors to search the sinking vessel for code books. When enemy biplane fighters attack, Toler fights them off, but the arrival of a bomber forces him to order the AL-14 to submerge and leave his boarding party behind. Knowlton disobeys his order and remains on deck, manning a machine gun. "Mac" MacDougal (Eugene Pallette) has to knock him unconscious and carry him below. Brick and his men are killed by the fighters. Upon returning to port, Knowlton goes to see Joan at the hospital. There he encounters patient Flight Commander Herbert Standish (Edwin Styles), who turns out to be Joan''s paraplegic husband. Knowlton departs, but Joan follows him and confesses she loves him. Back at sea, Toler tries to get Knowlton to break off the relationship, to no avail. Toler is ordered to map where new minelayers, now escorted by destroyers, are planting their mines. However, when Knowlton spots Brick''s boat through the periscope, he imagines he sees his friend still alive. He countermands Toler''s orders and attacks. Though several enemy ships are sunk, the sole surviving destroyer forces the AL-14 to dive to the sea bottom, 65 feet (20 m) below its maximum safe depth. After a while, Toler decides to surface, preferring to die fighting rather than suffocate. However, a crucial pump will not work. When it appears that they are doomed, one crewman commits suicide. Fortunately, repairs enable the submarine to surface, to find the enemy gone. Eight crewmen are "down" as a result of Knowlton''s actions. He is courtmartialed and discharged from the Navy in disgrace. He and Joan plan to run away together, much to Toler''s disgust. When Knowlton goes to the hospital to inform Joan''s husband, he learns that a successful operation makes it likely that the man will recover fully. Knowlton puts on an act for Joan and her father, pretending to be so callous that she is repulsed. Toler is given an extremely hazardous mission. To block the only port in the Adriatic from which German submarines can operate, the AL-14 is loaded with explosives and sent to ram a fortification beside the narrowest point in the channel out of the port. The rubble would block the exit. When Knowlton sneaks aboard, Toler lets him stay. Under cover of a battleship bombardment, the AL-14 surfaces and heads in. The rest of the crew abandon ship as planned, leaving only Toler and Knowlton. Toler orders Knowlton over the side, but he pushes Toler overboard instead and steers the ship to its target, sacrificing his life.'
'musical','The setting is a farm. Kate Smith and Sally Blane play sisters; assorted relatives live with the sisters, but everyone at home, and in the whole town, depends on Kate to hold everything together. The power company wants to build a dam which will require flooding many of the farms; Kate is holding out; if Kate sells, everyone else will sell; if Kate refuses, the rest of the town will refuse as well. Randolph Scott meets Kate''s beautiful sister, Sally Blane, at a dance. Randolph Scott, as it turns out, is an agent for the power company. Kate thinks he''s just using Sally; Sally believes that he truly likes her. Randolph comes to the farm and appears to woo Kate. Kate remains unconvinced about selling out, but falls for Randolph.'
'drama','A veteran of World War I, Thomas Holmes (Richard Barthelmess), struggles to make his way in civilian life in almost every way imaginable. In the opening scene of the movie, Tom and his friend are on a mission to gather intelligence by capturing a German soldier. Tom''s friend, the banker''s son Roger Winston (Gordon Westcott), in terror, refuses to leave the shell hole so Tom volunteers to go alone. He captures a German but is apparently killed; in fact, he has only been wounded, and the Germans take him to their hospital to recover. His friend Roger Winston returns to the safety of American lines with the captured German soldier and is rewarded with a medal for it; his feeble efforts to refuse credit are dismissed as modesty, and he comes home a decorated hero. During Tom''s captivity, German doctors treat his pain with morphine and he becomes addicted to the drug. After Tom returns from the war, Roger offers him a job at his father''s bank out of shame. But Tom''s addiction costs him his job. Exposed as an addict, confined and cured in an asylum, he comes out in 1922, unemployed and alone; his mother has died, apparently of shame and grief, while he was away. Heading to Chicago, he happens upon an apartment over a diner, run by kindhearted Pop Dennis (Charlie Grapewin) and his daughter Mary (Aline MacMahon). Tom finds a job in a laundry, and a romance with Ruth Loring (Loretta Young). Always the go-getter, Tom makes good, better than the other drivers on his route, and earns a promotion. A fierce radical inventor (Robert Barrat) devises a machine that will make washing and drying clothes easier, and Tom induces his fellow employees to raise the money to pay for patenting it. The laundry company adopts the machinery, but only on Tom''s stipulation that none of the workers at the plant lose their jobs because of it. Success and marriage are his. Then the president of the firm, the kindhearted Mr. Gibson (Grant Mitchell) dies. The new ownership decides to break the deal and automate the laundry, throwing most of its employees out of work, Tom included. Furious and resentful, the fired employees march on the plant to destroy the machines, as Tom does his best to stop them. In the riot with police that follows, Ruth is killed trying to find him, and he is arrested as a ringleader of the mob. Tom is put away for five years in prison; in the meantime, the invention he helped finance continues to sell nationwide, throwing countless other people out of work. When Tom gets out, it is 1932, the heart of the Depression. Unimaginably rich, he refuses to take the proceeds, which by now amount to over fifty thousand dollars. Instead, it goes to feed the endless line of hungry and jobless that come seeking a handout at the diner that Pop Dennis and Mary run. When "Red Riots" break out, the local city "Red Squad" arrests Tom and drives him out of town. Without work, at the mercy of a society in which unemployed men are turned into hobos and every community orders them to keep moving on, Tom finds himself in one hobo shantytown, next to Roger, his old army comrade. Roger Winston, too, has been ruined; his father stole from the bank and when exposure came, killed himself. Roger served time in prison. Now neither of them has any prospect, any future. The difference is that Tom, in a stirring speech, asserts his faith that America can and will restore itself, that he can lick the Depression. Still driven on by authorities, with no prospect in sight, he marches ahead, determined that this is not the end. And back at the diner, the line of needy continues to stretch down the street, all of them being fed by the funds he provided, and on the wall a plaque honors him for his gift. The movie closes with his son looking at it and declaring to Mary that when he grows up, he means to be just like his Dad. The message is clear: a hero in war, Tom is a hero still.'
'adventure, drama','Mark "High Gear" Sherrod has been a race car driver for the past five years and is now at the height of his career. His co-driver Ed is the widowed father of Jimmy. Ed promised his wife before she died that he would send Jimmy off to a fine military school after winning the "big race". The day before the race finds Jimmy and Ed at home in their apartment, with Mr. and Mrs. Cohen visiting, and reporter Anne Merrit sneaking into Mark''s hotel room for an exclusive interview. Mark agrees to give her the interview she needs over a dinner table. She break the date she already has for the night with her boss Larry Winston and goes out with Mark. Larry Winston walks into the same restaurant Mark and Anne are dining at, and sees them. Larry walks over to their table and has Anne introduce him to Mark. The two men become rivals. On the day of the race, Mark gets behind when a tire goes flat. He enters the track again and starts to take the lead. While on the last lap, Mark loses control of his car and spins out just as he is about to pass the car in the lead. His car comes to a stop and before he can move out of the way, he is hit dead on by another car going full speed. Mark somehow comes out of this accident unscathed, but his partner Ed is killed. Jimmy, now an orphan, is staying with the Cohen''s. Mark returns and the Cohen''s decide to tell him they would like to adopt Jimmy. Before they are able to however, Mark asks Jimmy if he wants to come and live with him at his hotel. Jimmy accepts, Mark promises to send him to that military school, and Mrs. Cohen silently bursts into tears. Mark sends Jimmy to the URBAN Military Academy and hits the track again with his new co-driver Howard. Unfortunately, Mark is plagued by crude flashbacks of Ed and the accident. He tells Howard he is through with racing and walks away. Strapped for cash, Mark leaves his fancy hotel, moves in with Mr. and Mrs. Cohen, and takes a job as a taxi driver to pay for Jimmy''s school. While waiting for customers, Mark gets into a fight with another cabbie for being in the wrong space. Anne, who has been unable to find Mark since he moved, spots him in his taxi and finds his new residence through his license number. Anne promises to not mention Marks "fall from fame" and has dinner with him. While dropping Anne off at her office, Mark is spotted by Larry Winston. Larry asks Anne who her taxi driver was and when she does not tell him, he comes to the correct conclusion on his own. Larry promises to Anne that he will not say anything about Mark''s new career, but later breaks his promise when he delivers his news report the next afternoon. Mark hears this report on the radio and becomes infuriated. Jimmy also hears the report with his school mates and is laughed out of the room. Mark hurries to confront Anne and does not believe her when she says she didn''t say anything. While there, he gets into another argument with two other cabbies. Jimmy comes to the conclusion that Mark cannot afford to keep him at URBAN, so he sneaks out of a window and returns to the Cohen''s apartment for a "surprise visit". Mark is at first happy, but then becomes upset when Jimmy refuses to return school. Two rival cab drivers go to Mark''s home and begin tearing up his cab. Mark goes out and gets into an all out brawl with them. Jimmy gets caught up in the middle and is hit in the head with a flying wrench, which "crushes" his skull. Anne tells Mark more or less to drive Jimmy to this hospital as quick as he can. Over time, Jimmy recovers and is later seen in the hospital talking to friends. Mark returns to racing and wins another big race, with Anne right by his side.'
'comedy, drama','Priam Farrel (Roland Young) is England''s greatest painter. A recluse who hates fame, he has been away from England and has never even seen his agent. When a woman mistakenly believes he has proposed marriage to her, he and his valet Henry Leek hastily return to England. After Leek dies soon after of pneumonia, the attending doctor mistakes him for Priam and informs the press. The real Priam is glad to be mistaken for his valet by everyone, even his cousin Duncan (who has not seen him since he was 12). After several attempts to clear up the misidentification, he gives up. He goes to a hotel, where he meets Alice Chalice (Lillian Gish), who was put in touch with Leek through a matrimonial agency and, by chance, was to meet Leek for the first time there. Leek had sent her a photograph of him and Priam together, so she makes the same mistake. Priam finds her very pleasant to be with. He has qualms when he learns that "he" is to be accorded the great honor of being interred in Westminster Abbey, but once again he is unable to convince anyone, including Alice, that he is the painter. He is happy to marry Alice and live a quiet country life. Then Alice''s income from brewery shares disappears, along with the brewery, but Priam assures her that he can provide for her by selling some of his paintings. She is skeptical, however. Nonetheless, she sells some of his paintings, mainly for the frames. One painting passes through several hands and ends up with Oxford, Priam''s old agent, who recognizes the artist''s style. Oxford buys all of Priam''s new paintings and resells them, guaranteeing that that are genuine Farrels. Oxford tracks Priam down and asks him to reveal he is still alive. It turns out that one of the paintings Oxford sold had a date on it, 1932, two years after Priam''s "death", and the buyer has taken Oxford to court. Priam strenuously refuses, so Oxford takes another approach, placing an advertisement asking for information about Henry Leek. Leek''s widow shows up, accompanied by her clergymen sons John and Henry. Her husband deserted her about 25 years before after the birth of their twin sons. She identifies Priam as him. Priam bolts at the first opportunity, but Alice is more than up to the challenge. She portrays her "Henry" as violent and not entirely sane and points out that there would be a scandal. The Leeks hastily depart. Even so, Priam is brought into court. In the course of testimony, his cousin Duncan recalls that he has two moles on his neck. Priam stubbornly refuses to show them, but Alice convinces him to do so. Afterward, Priam and Alice sail away to recover their privacy.'
'comedy','Dick Wallace, portrayed by a 26-year-old John Wayne, has to prove to the Preacher''s daughter, his own Dad, his old friends, and himself that he isn''t just an irresponsible playboy. Fortunately, his new love, Marion does a good job of convincing them. The question is whether or not it is true.'
'comedy, drama','Small-time con man Eddie Hall (Clark Gable) hides from his latest victim and a policeman in the first unlocked apartment he can find. It turns out to occupied by Ruby Adams (Jean Harlow), a cynical woman with numerous boyfriends. When it is safe to come out, Eddie wants to become better acquainted with his pretty rescuer. Although she resists at first, she ends up falling in love with him. Eddie''s partner Slim (Garry Owen) comes up with a scheme to catch one of Ruby''s married admirers in a compromising position and blackmail him, but Eddie finds at the last moment that he cannot bear to have his girl involved in something that sordid. He breaks into Ruby''s apartment and punches the would-be victim, accidentally killing him. Eddie escapes, but Ruby is caught and sentenced to a reformatory for two years. One of her fellow inmates turns out to be Gypsy Angecon (Dorothy Burgess), Eddie''s previous girlfriend. When Eddie learns from a released Gypsy that Ruby is pregnant with his child, he visits her; but, as a fugitive, he has to pretend to be there to see another inmate. Even though the authorities become suspicious, Eddie is determined to marry Ruby so his child will not be illegitimate. With the police closing in, instead of escaping he persuades a minister visiting his wayward daughter to marry them. Afterwards, Eddie is caught and sent to prison. When he gets out, he is welcomed by Ruby and their young son. Ruby announces that Al Simpson (Stuart Erwin), who had wanted to marry her himself, has gotten Eddie a legitimate job.'
'drama','San Diego Standard reporter H. Joseph Miller (Ben Lyon) has been covering the city''s waterfront for the past five years and is fed up with the work. He longs to escape the waterfront life and land a newspaper job back East so he can marry his Vermont sweetheart. Miller is frustrated by the lack of progress of his current assignment investigating the smuggling of Chinese people into the country by a fisherman named Eli Kirk (Ernest Torrence). One morning after wasting a night tracking down bad leads, his editor at the Standard orders him to investigate a report of a girl swimming naked at the beach. There he meets Julie Kirk (Claudette Colbert), the daughter of the man he''s been investigating. Meanwhile, Eli Kirk and his crew are returning to San Diego with a Chinese passenger when the Coast Guard approaches. Not wanting to be caught with evidence of his smuggling operation, Kirk orders his men to weigh down the Chinaman and lower him overboard to his death. The Coast Guard, accompanied by Miller, board the boat but find nothing. The next day, Miller discovers the Chinaman''s body which was carried in with the tide, and takes it as evidence to his editor, who still remains skeptical of Kirk''s guilt. To get conclusive evidence, Miller tells him he plans to romance Kirk''s daughter Julie in order to break the smuggling operation. When Kirk returns, he informs Julie that they will need to move on soon—maybe to Singapore—as soon as he can put together enough money for the voyage. One night, Julie discovers her father drunk at a boarding house. Miller, who was there investigating Kirk, helps Julie take her father home. Julie does not discourage Miller''s flirtations, and during the next few weeks they fall in love. She is able to help Miller see the beauty of the waterfront, and inspires him to improve the novel he''s been working for the past five years. While visiting an old Spanish galleon on a date, he playfully restrains her in a torture rack and kisses her passionately—and she returns his passion. Julie and Miller spend a romantic evening together on the beach, where she reveals that she and her father will be sailing away in the next few days. After spending the night in Miller''s apartment, Julie announces the next morning that she''s decided to stay, hoping that he will stay with her. When Miller learns from her that her father is due to dock at the Chinese settlement that night, he notifies the Coast Guard. At the dock, while the Coast Guard searches the vessel, Miller discovers a Chinaman hidden inside a large shark. When the Coast Guard attempt to arrest Kirk, he flees the scene but is wounded during his escape. The next morning, Miller''s breaking story is published on the Standard''s front page. When a wounded Kirk makes his way back home, Julie learns that it was Miller who helped the Coast Guard uncover her father''s smuggling operation (of which she was unaware), and that she unknowingly revealed to him his landing location. Soon after, Miller, feeling guilty over the story''s impact to Julie''s life, arrives at her home and apologizes for the hurt he''s caused her, and announces that he loves her. Feeling used by his actions, an angry Julie sends him away. Later that night, Miller locates Kirk, who shoots him in the arm. Julie arrives to help her father escape, and seeing Miller wounded, she tells her father she cannot leave Miller to die. Seeing that she loves him, Kirk helps her take Miller to safety, after which Kirk dies. Later from his hospital bed, Miller acknowledges in his newspaper column that Kirk saved his life before he died. Sometime later, Miller returns to his apartment, where Julie is waiting to greet him. Noticing that she cleaned and transformed his place into a cozy home, he tells her he finally wrote the ending to his novel, "He marries the girl". Julie acknowledges, "That''s a swell finish", and the two embrace.'
'drama','A playwright discovers an actress to star in his latest play, unaware of her secret background.'
'drama','John Hayden (Robinson), owner of a Chicago meat-packing company, falls in love with a beautiful opera singer (Francis).'
'comedy, musical','Tira (Mae West) shimmies and sings in the sideshow of Big Bill Barton''s Wonder Show, while her current boyfriend, pickpocket "Slick" (Ralf Harolde), relieves her distracted audience of their valuables for Big Bill (Edward Arnold). One of the rich customers arranges a private rendezvous, during which Slick barges in and attempts to run a badger game on the customer. The customer threatens to call the cops, so Slick whacks him over the head with a bottle. Mistakenly thinking he has killed the man, Slick flees, but is caught and jailed. Fearing that Slick will implicate her, Tira asks Big Bill for a loan to retain her lawyer, Bennie Pinkowitz (Gregory Ratoff). He agrees on condition that she does her lion taming act, which includes putting her head into the mouth of one of the beasts, promising her that it will get her (and him) to the "Big Show". It does. (West did some of her own stunts, including riding an elephant into the ring.[citation needed]) Tira''s fame takes her to New York City, where wealthy Kirk Lawrence (Kent Taylor) is smitten, despite being engaged to snobbish socialite Alicia Hatton (Gertrude Michael). He showers her with expensive gifts. Kirk''s friend and even richer cousin, Jack Clayton (Cary Grant), goes to see Tira to ask her to leave Kirk and his fiancée alone. He ends up falling for her himself. Tira and Jack’s romance leads to a wedding engagement. Tira tells Big Bill she is quitting to get married. Unwilling to lose his prize act, he has Slick, recently released from prison, sneak into Tira''s penthouse suite, where Jack finds him in his robe. As a result, Jack breaks off the engagement. Tira sues Jack for breach of promise. The defense tries to use her past relationships to discredit her, but the judge allows her to cross examine the witnesses herself and in doing so she wins over not only the judge and jury, but also Jack. Jack agrees to give her a big settlement check. When he goes to see her, Tira tears up the check, and the two reconcile.'
'drama','Unhappily married, a man and a woman try to maintain a successful adulterous affair together.[1]'
'documentary','Ostensibly a filmed recollection of Richard Halliburton''s travels on the Indian sub-continent, the film combined actual footage shot in India, with scenes which were created on the sound stages of Hollywood. Halliburton was a well-known adventurer of the day, having traveled the world extensively, and even becoming the first man to swim the Panama Canal.[4] The film follows Halliburton''s travels, from the Hindu temple of the Goddess of Kali, through the deserted temples of Angkor Wat, where he is tempted to try to gain a fortune in jewels, only to be thwarted by a guardian cobra. He watches as Hindu devotees wash away their sins in the Ganges River, and is discovered as he attempts to sneak into the great mosque in Delhi during the feast of Ramadan. He falls in love with a 16-year-old princess from Kashmir, only to have the relationship aborted by the weather, then becomes friends with a high-ranking Lama in Tibet. At one point, the film contains the first ever footage of ecstatic rites by Hindus, in the city of Madras, whereby they pierce their cheeks and tongues with sharp needles, and pull large carts which are attached to their bodies by means of hooks inserted in their flesh.[5] The only credited cast member is Richard Halliburton, who stars as "The Adventurer", as well as being the narrator of the film.'
'thriller','A bomb planted on board a ship may go off at any moment, leaving the crew and passengers in suspense.'
'science fiction, horror','On a snowy night, a mysterious stranger, his face swathed in bandages and his eyes obscured by dark goggles, takes a room at The Lion''s Head Inn in the English village of Iping in Sussex. The man demands that he be left alone. Later, the innkeeper, Mr. Hall (Forrester Harvey) is sent by his wife (Una O''Connor) to evict the stranger after he makes a huge mess in his room while doing research and falls behind on his rent. Angered, the stranger throws Mr. Hall down the stairs. Confronted by a policeman and some local villagers, he removes his bandages and goggles, revealing that he is invisible. Laughing maniacally, he takes off his clothes, making himself completely undetectable, and drives off his tormenters before fleeing into the countryside. The stranger is Dr. Jack Griffin (Claude Rains), a chemist who has discovered the secret of invisibility while conducting a series of tests involving an obscure drug called monocane. Flora Cranley (Gloria Stuart), Griffin''s fiancee and the daughter of Griffin''s employer, Dr. Cranley (Henry Travers), becomes distraught over Griffin''s long absence. Cranley and his other assistant, Dr. Kemp (William Harrigan), search Griffin''s empty laboratory, finding only a single note in a cupboard. Cranley becomes concerned when he reads it. On the note is a list of chemicals including drug monocane, which Cranley knows is extremely dangerous; an injection of it drove a dog mad in Germany. Griffin it seems is unaware of this, Cranley deducing he may have learned about monocane in English books printed before the incident that only describe its bleaching power. On the evening of his escape from the inn, Griffin turns up at Kemp''s home. He forces Kemp to become his visible partner in a plot to dominate the world through a reign of terror, commencing with "a few murders here and there". They drive back to the inn to retrieve his notebooks on the invisibility process. Sneaking inside, Griffin finds a police inquiry under way, conducted by an official who believes it is all a hoax. After securing his books, he attacks and kills the officer. Back home, Kemp calls first Cranley, asking for help, and then the police. Flora persuades her father to let her come along. In her presence, Griffin becomes more placid and calls her "darling." When he realizes Kemp has betrayed him, his first reaction is to get Flora away from danger. After promising Kemp that at 10 o''clock the next night he will murder him, Griffin escapes and goes on a killing spree. He causes the derailment of a train, resulting in a hundred deaths, and throws two volunteer searchers off a cliff. The police offer a reward for anyone who can think of a way to catch the Invisible Man. The chief detective (Dudley Digges) in charge of the search uses Kemp as bait, feeling Griffin will try to fulfill his promise, and devises various clever traps. At Kemp''s insistence, the police disguise him in a police uniform and let him drive his car away from his house. Griffin, however, is hiding in the back seat of the car. He overpowers Kemp and ties him up in the front seat. Griffin then sends the car down a steep hill and over a cliff, where it explodes on impact. Griffin seeks shelter from a snowstorm in a barn. A farmer hears snoring and sees the hay, in which Griffin is sleeping, moving. The man notifies the police. The police surround the building and set fire to the barn. When Griffin comes out, the chief detective sees his footprints in the snow and opens fire, mortally wounding him. Griffin is taken to the hospital where, on his deathbed, he admits to Flora that he had tampered with something that was meant to be left alone. After he dies, his body gradually becomes visible again.'
'mystery','When Philo Vance''s dog does not make it into the final of the Long Island Kennel Club''s dog show, fellow competitor Archer Coe (Robert Barrat) is disappointed, having hoped to savor a victory over Vance. The next morning Coe is found dead, locked inside his bedroom. District Attorney Markham (Robert McWade) and Police Sergeant Heath (Eugene Pallette) assume it was suicide, because Coe was shot through the head and was found holding a pistol. Vance is not convinced. He soon finds evidence that Coe was murdered. Coroner Dr. Doremus (Etienne Girardot) determines the victim died of a stab wound. There is no shortage of suspects; Coe was very much disliked. His niece Hilda Lake (Mary Astor) resented her uncle''s tight control of her finances and jealousy of any men who showed interest in her. Her boyfriend, Sir Thomas MacDonald (Paul Cavanagh), suspected Coe of killing his dog to ensure winning the competition. Raymond Wrede (Ralph Morgan), the dead man''s secretary, was in love with Miss Lake, but had been laughed at when he sought Coe''s support. Coe''s next-door neighbor and lover Doris Delafield (Helen Vinson) had been cheating on him with Eduardo Grassi (Jack La Rue). When Coe found out, he cancelled a contract to sell his collection of Chinese artworks to the Milan museum for which Grassi worked. Liang (James Lee), the cook, had worked long, hard, and illegally to help Coe amass his collection. He warned his employer against the proposed sale and was fired as a result. Even Coe''s own brother Brisbane (Frank Conroy) despised Coe. Finally, Gamble (Arthur Hohl), the head servant, had concealed his criminal past. Brisbane Coe becomes Vance''s prime suspect. His alibi of taking a train at the time of the murder is disproved. When Brisbane is found dead in a closet, Vance is both puzzled and enlightened. Among Brisbane''s effects, Vance finds a book titled Unsolved Murders; a bookmarked page details a method of using string to lock a door through the keyhole without leaving a trace. Part of the mystery is solved. Later, an attempt is made on the life of Sir Thomas using the same dagger used to kill Coe. Finally, a Doberman Pinscher belonging to Miss Delafield is found seriously injured, apparently struck with a fireside poker. From these and other clues, Vance finally solves the crime. It turns out that two men sought Coe''s life that night. The successful murderer struggled with Coe and stabbed him, leaving him for dead. Coe awakened soon after. Too dazed to recall the fight or notice that he was mortally wounded, he went upstairs to his bedroom and opened his window before dying. Brisbane entered the chamber, saw his brother apparently asleep in his chair. He shot the corpse and arranged the scene to look like a suicide. Downstairs, he ran into the actual killer, who had seen through a window that Archer Coe was still alive and came back to finish the job. In the darkness, the killer mistook Brisbane for Archer and killed the wrong man. Delafield''s dog then wandered in, attracted by the commotion, and attacked the murderer. While sure of the killer''s identity, Vance has no proof. He therefore arranges for Sir Thomas and Wrede to quarrel over Hilda Lake. When Wrede instinctively reaches for the poker to strike his rival, the Doberman recognizes its attacker and leaps on him. Wrede confesses he became enraged when Coe refused to assist his courtship of Miss Lake, precipitating the stabbing.'
'comedy drama','Anne Brooks (Kay Francis), wife of wealthy businessman Schuyler Brooks, is being blackmailed by her former husband Maurice Le Brun who never finalized their divorce and lied to her about it. Acting on advice from Brooks'' sister, Anne books a cruise ship passage to Havana, Cuba, to lure Le Brun out of the United States so that he can be blocked from re-entering. Suspicious of her behavior, Brooks hires private detective Neil Davis (George Brent) to follow her and report on whether she is having an affair, but tells him that she is merely a young woman that he''s interested in. Anne leaks to Le Brun the details of her trip and he also boards the ship. Davis makes contact with her and sends reports to Brooks that she is not having an affair, but begins to develop a romance with her himself. Back in New York, Brooks learns about the blackmailing from his sister and leaves on a plane to Cuba to apologize to Anne for being suspicious. Meanwhile, Anne reveals to Davis that she is married to Brooks and that she is being blackmailed and he reveals that he is a private detective hired by Brooks to follow her. Le Brun arrives at Anne''s hotel room for his payoff. To save Anne''s marriage, Davis persuades him to leave via the balcony so that Brooks won''t find him in a compromising situation with her, but just as Brooks comes into the room, Anne kisses Davis, telling Brooks that their marriage is over. Le Brun falls from the balcony to his death, ending any further threat of blackmail.'
'adventure horror','In New York Harbor, filmmaker Carl Denham, famous for making wildlife films in remote and exotic locations, charters Captain Englehorn''s ship, the Venture, for his new project. However, he is unable to secure an actress for a female role he has been reluctant to disclose. Searching in the streets of New York City, he finds Ann Darrow and promises her the adventure of a lifetime. The crew boards the Venture and sets off, during which the ship''s first mate Jack Driscoll, falls in love with Ann. Denham reveals to the crew that their destination is in fact Skull Island, an uncharted territory. He alludes to a monstrous creature named Kong, rumored to dwell on the island. The crew arrives and anchor offshore. They encounter a native village, separated from the rest of the island by an ancient stone wall. They witness a group of natives preparing to sacrifice a young woman termed the "bride of Kong". The intruders are spotted and the native chief stops the ceremony. When he sees Ann, he offers to trade six of his tribal women for the "golden woman". They rebuff him and return to the Venture. That night, natives kidnap Ann from the ship and take her to their altar, where she is offered to Kong, an enormous gorilla-like creature. Kong carries Ann into the wilderness as Denham, Driscoll and some volunteers enter the jungle in hopes of rescuing her. They are ambushed by another giant creature, a Stegosaurus, which they manage to defeat. After facing a Brontosaurus and Kong himself, Driscoll and Denham are the only survivors. A Tyrannosaurus attacks Ann and Kong, but he kills it in battle. Meanwhile, Driscoll continues to follow them, while Denham returns to the village for more men. Upon arriving in Kong''s lair, Ann is menaced by a snake-like Elasmosaurus, which Kong also kills. While Kong is distracted killing a Pteranodon that tried to fly away with Ann, Driscoll reaches her and they climb down a vine dangling from a cliff ledge. When Kong notices and starts pulling them back up, the two fall unharmed. They run through the jungle and back to the village, where Denham, Englehorn, and the surviving crewmen are waiting. Kong, following, breaks open the gate and relentlessly rampages through the village. Onshore, Denham, now determined to bring Kong back alive, knocks him unconscious with a gas bomb. Shackled in chains, Kong is taken to New York City and presented to a Broadway theatre audience as "Kong, the Eighth Wonder of the World". Ann and Jack are brought on stage to join him, surrounded by a group of press photographers. Kong, believing that the ensuing flash photography is an attack, breaks loose. The audience flees in horror. Ann is whisked away to a hotel room on a high floor, but Kong, scaling the building, soon finds her. His hand smashes through the hotel room window, immobilizing Jack, and abducts Ann again. Kong rampages through the city. He wrecks a crowded elevated train and then climbs the Empire State Building. At its top, he is attacked by four airplanes. Kong destroys one, but finally succumbs to their gunfire. He ensures Ann''s safety before falling to his death. Ann and Jack are reunited. Denham arrives and pushes through a crowd surrounding Kong''s corpse in the street. When a policeman remarks that the planes got him, Denham tells him, "It was Beauty who killed the Beast".'
'western','A former circus performer, Ken Kenton becomes personally involved when a mysterious criminal organization called Black Death appears to be targeting a circus troupe. Ken is reunited with the circus owner''s daughter, Mary Hiller, and crosses the path of Bargoff, a bronco rider who resents Ken and tries to get him killed in a knife-throwing act. After a Russian baron named Petroff assists him when Bargoff robs the circus and kidnaps Mary, it turns out Petroff is the ringleader of the Black Death. A confrontation leaves Ken and Mary safe to proceed with their lives.'
'romance','Phillip (Arliss), the figurehead monarch of an unnamed country, is unharmed in an assassination attempt. In a conversation with his attempted murderer, Anderson, it becomes clear that the king''s sympathies are with the downtrodden people. As unrest builds, Phillip abdicates to avoid bloodshed. Phillip had come to the throne unexpectedly 18 years before, and had been forced to give up his commoner wife Helen (Gateson) and their infant daughter and marry Margaret (played by Arliss''s real-life wife Florence). He is prepared to remain married, but Margaret (aware of his lost love) informs him that she too had someone she loved. She refuses to reveal the man''s identity, referring to him only as "Mr. X". His conscience salved, he is free to seek out Helen. He finds her wealthy and, in an ironic twist, she has made it clear to their daughter Millicent that she believes that Millicent''s love, mechanic and inventor John Kent, is too far beneath her socially to marry. Phillip is favorably impressed by John, but is unable to persuade Helen to change her mind. When Helen wants a tiara, Phillip reluctantly goes to purchase it (despite its resemblance to a crown). On the trip, he encounters Margaret and visits her. He is pleasantly surprised by many things he never knew about her, and misses the last train back to Helen''s mansion. He sends a wire notifying Helen; she decides to attend a party anyway, escorted by longtime admirer Barstow. On the way back, Barstow informs her that, with the impending marriage, he is going away. Meanwhile, the royalists are ready to seize back the country, with the army and navy at their side. However, Phillip refuses to participate. When Barstow comes to bid Helen farewell for the last time, she is shocked, having believed he was only joking. Phillip sees that she is truly in love with Barstow, and suggests they call off the wedding. Then he goes to see Margaret. Having ascertained that she has received no visits from her supposed lost love (and suspecting that she made him up), he announces himself as "Mr. X".'
'mystery','A lawyer (Morgan) fears his own wife (Carroll) might be having an affair while he defends a cuckolded wife-killer.'
'prison drama','Nan Taylor is a member of a gang of bank robbers, posing as a regular customer to distract the security guard while her accomplices take the money. Her cover is blown by a policeman who had arrested her before, and she is arrested. Reform-minded radio star, David Slade, falls in love with her and gets her released as a favor from District Attorney Simpson. However, when she confesses that she is guilty, Simpson has her imprisoned. At San Quentin State Prison, Nan meets fellow inmates Linda, "Sister Susie", and Aunt Maggie, as well as prison matron Noonan. Slade continues to send Nan letters, but she refuses his entreaties. Meanwhile, Linda has a fancy for Slade, and resents Nan for spurring him. Her bank accomplice, Lefty, visits her, and tells her that Don is now imprisoned in the men''s section on the other side of the wall. Lefty tells her to make a map of the women''s section as well as a copy of the matron''s key so that the men can escape via the women''s section of the prison. However, Nan believes Slade told the prison officials about the escape plot and Don is shot dead as he gets to Nan''s cell to break her out. Nan is given another year, and is not allowed visitors, but vows to seek revenge on Slade. When she is released, Nan goes to a revival group meeting hosted by Slade. He is glad to see her, and she is escorted to a back room where he professes his love for her. She scoffs and accuses him of turning in her bank robber accomplices. She shoots him but misses, hitting him in the arm. Sister Susie sees this from outside via a keyhole, but Slade denies that he has been shot, and Slade and Nan announce their intention to marry.'
'comedy','The story focuses on Apple Annie (May Robson), an aging and wretched fruit seller in New York City, whose daughter Louise (Jean Parker) has been raised in a Spanish convent since she was an infant. Louise has been led to believe her mother is a society matron named Mrs. E. Worthington Manville who lives at the Hotel Marberry. Annie discovers her charade is in danger of being uncovered when she learns Louise is sailing to New York with her fiancé Carlos (Barry Norton) and his father, Count Romero (Walter Connolly). Among Annie''s patrons are Dave the Dude (Warren William), a gambling gangster who believes her apples bring him good luck, and his henchman Happy McGuire (Ned Sparks). Annie''s friends ask Dave to rent her an apartment at the Marberry and, although he initially declines, he has a change of heart and arranges for her to live in the lap of luxury in a palatial residence belonging to a friend. His girlfriend, nightclub owner Missouri Martin (Glenda Farrell), helps transform Annie from a dowdy street peddler to an elegant dowager. Dave arranges for pool hustler Henry D. Blake (Guy Kibbee) to pose as Annie''s husband, the dignified Judge Manville. At the pier, Annie tearfully reunites with Louise. When three society reporters become suspicious about Mrs. E. Worthington Manville, of whom they can find no public records, they are kidnapped by members of Dave''s gang, and their disappearance leads the local newspapers to accuse the police department of incompetence. A few days later, Blake – in the role of Judge Manville – announces he is planning a gala reception for Louise, Carlos, and Count Romero before they return to Spain, and he enlists Dave''s guys and Missouri''s dolls to pose as Annie''s society friends. On the night of the reception, the police – certain Dave is responsible for the missing reporters – surround Missouri''s club, where the gang has assembled for a final rehearsal. Dave calls Blake to advise him of their predicament, and Annie decides to confess everything to Count Romero. But fate – in the form of a sympathetic mayor and governor and their entourages – unexpectedly steps in and allows Annie to maintain her charade and keep Louise from learning the truth.'
'comedy, crime','After being fired as a theater usher, Dan Quigley (James Cagney) tracks down Myra Gale (Mae Clarke) to her apartment and returns the purse she dropped. He then sits in on a poker game with her "brother-in-law", Spade Maddock (Douglass Dumbrille), Duke (Leslie Fenton), Smiley (Russell Hopton) and Pete (Raymond Hatton). After he loses all his money, he leaves, only to run into another person trying to return Myra''s purse. Realizing he has been conned, he threatens to go to the police ... unless they let him join them, telling them he has some profitable ideas. He is as good as his word. Eventually, they are running a nightclub and casino, a perfect cover to scout the rich as burglary targets. Dan stages a car accident so a passing "doctor" can persuade Mrs. Marley (Marjorie Gateson) to let him rest for a while in her nearby mansion. This gives Dan an opportunity to check out the place, so that they can break in later. More burglaries follow, but Dan decides to quit when a butler is killed during the latest one. However, Pete cracks under police interrogation and betrays the others; when the police come for them, Duke kills Pete and everyone flees. Dan and Myra head to Los Angeles. Dan is picked up for questioning at the train station, so he gives his money to Myra for safekeeping. She then runs into Spade. When Dan telephones her to have her post his bail, Spade persuades her to go with him to Mexico instead. Dan is released anyway. Broke, he runs away from what he mistakes for a policeman, only to discover his pursuer is actually hiring extras for a film. Dan gladly accepts $3 a day and a box lunch. On his fourth day of work, he meets star Lois Underwood (Margaret Lindsay) and is surprised to find her friendly, even to a lowly extra. Meanwhile, National Studio head Ramick (Henry O''Neill) is looking for fresh, "rough and ready" faces, as the public is tiring of handsome stars. One of his executives suggests Dan. Dan helps his career along by writing himself hundreds of fan letters a week, and is soon a rising star. He and Lois start going out together. When he spots a critic who had written harsh things about Lois, he forces the man to literally eat his words, making him swallow the newspaper column, and warns him against panning Lois again. He then takes Lois home to see his new suite. However, when they unexpectedly find Myra in his bedroom, Lois leaves. Dan throws Myra out, but she is not alone. Spade and their old gang want Dan to use his connections to get them inside stars'' homes in preparation for robberies. Dan refuses, and offers them $10,000, all the money he has, to leave town and never come back. Spade has no intention of departing. When burglaries start occurring using the modus operandi of Dan''s old gang, the police suspect he is the ringleader. Dan tracks the crooks down after they rob Lois. He retrieves her jewels at gunpoint, but just as he is leaving, the police arrive. He is arrested, while the others get away. In spite of the protests of the studio bigwigs, Lois adamantly intends to pay Dan''s bail and stand by him. However, Spade worries that Dan will tell all he knows and has Myra bail Dan out so they can kill him. Myra tells Dan, but he already suspected as much and had the police tail them both. After a car chase, the thieves are either dead or in custody, Dan is exonerated and he asks the authorities to guarantee leniency for Myra. Dan and Lois then fly to another state to get married without delay.'
'adventure','Easter, a soldier of fortune and gunrunner, leaves his family behind escaping from the authorities and an American detective named Mason. His globe-hopping escape leads him finally to South America, where he is hired to organize a band of revolutionaries, unaware that they plan to eliminate him when his job is done. Here, also, he encounters his own son, who is on track to waste his own life in pursuits similar to Easter''s.'
'drama','O''Brien plays an Irish mine worker, Barney Slaney. Later Barney gets a job as a fireman on the local train for an engineer named Mileaway. He gets married, but finds his wife having an affair with Grover Perkins, a childhood nemesis. Barney loses control and kills them both. He turns himself in and receives a life sentence of hard labor. Barney quickly finds out that the brother of the man he killed, Ed Perkins, will be in charge of his chain gang, and the brother bullies him repeatedly. While the prisoners dig graves, Barney knocks Ed unconscious and drops him into one of the open graves. He then escapes during the ensuing mayhem, in which the warden is killed. He breaks out of the police dragnet, and hides at a farm which recently had a pestilence infection. He meets a woman named Lorraine, and they run away together.[3][4]'
'drama','Southpaw boxer Jimmy Dolan believes in clean living outside the ring, but blonde vixen Goldie West gets him drunk after a fight. Then when reporter Magee plans to write about Jimmy''s behavior, a punch in the face accidentally kills Magee. With the fighter certain to face charges and possible incarceration, his manager Doc Woods makes off with Jimmy''s money and watch. Driving away with Goldie, they end up in a fiery car crash and are killed. Doc''s face is unrecognizable, and because he''s wearing Jimmy''s watch, it is believed the boxer is dead. A detective, Phlaxer, is unconvinced. The watch is on the wrong wrist for a left-hander. Jimmy, trying to take advantage of the situation and begin a new life, disappears. On the verge of starvation, he comes across a farm run for crippled children by a young woman named Peggy and her aunt. He helps them with the kids as thanks for their hospitality. A charity match against boxer King Cobra is arranged to raise badly needed money for the farm''s mortgage. A photograph of Daugherty makes it obvious to Phlaxer that fugitive Jimmy Dolan is very much alive. He intends to take him into custody, but upon seeing how Jimmy''s life has changed for the better, the detective lets him remain free.'
'drama','Set in Concord, Massachusetts, during and after the American Civil War, the film is a series of vignettes focusing on the struggles and adventures of the four March sisters and their mother, affectionately known as Marmee (Spring Byington), while they await the return of their father (Samuel S. Hinds), who serves as a colonel and a chaplain in the Union Army. Spirited tomboy Jo (Katharine Hepburn), who caters to the whims of their well-to-do Aunt March (Edna May Oliver), dreams of becoming a famous author, and she writes plays for her sisters to perform for the local children. Amy (Joan Bennett) is pretty but selfish, Meg (Frances Dee) works as a governess, and sensitive Beth (Jean Parker) practices on her clavichord, an aging instrument sorely in need of tuning. The girls meet Laurie (Douglass Montgomery), who has come to live with his grandfather, Mr. Laurence (Henry Stephenson), the Marches'' wealthy next-door neighbor. The Laurences invite them to a lavish party, where Meg meets Laurie''s tutor, John Brooke (John Lodge). During the next several months John courts Meg, Jo''s first short story becomes published, and Beth often takes advantage of Mr. Laurence''s offer for her to practice on his piano. Marmee learns that her husband is recuperating in a hospital in Washington, D.C., after an injury, so she goes to Washington to care for him. During her absence Beth contracts scarlet fever from a neighbor''s baby. She recovers, albeit in a weakened condition. The March parents return, and Meg marries John. Laurie confesses his love to Jo, who rejects him. When he snubs her in return, Jo moves to New York City to pursue her writing career, and she lives in a boarding house. There she meets Professor Bhaer (Paul Lukas), an impoverished German linguist. With his help and encouragement Jo improves her writing, and she resolves her confused feelings about Laurie. Beth, debilitated, is near to death, so Jo returns to Concord. After Beth dies, Jo learns that Amy, who accompanied Aunt March to Europe, has fallen in love with Laurie and accepted his proposal. Professor Bhaer arrives from New York City and proposes to Jo, who accepts, then Amy and Laurie eventually marry.'
'drama','With his upscale department store steadily losing money, Gabriel Service, Sr. (Lewis Stone) is forced to discharge some of his employees, including an unenterprising but loyal and long-serving Tim Benton (Lionel Barrymore). Then Service returns home to his mansion to inform his family of their own financial straits; he has kept the 200-year-old family firm afloat with his own money in recent times. Neither his young adult children, Caroline (Elizabeth Allan) and Michael (Phillips Holmes), nor their stepmother Isobel (Benita Hume) take him very seriously at first, despite his repeated warnings over the past few months. Isobel has also been seeing another man behind her oblivious husband''s back. The situation becomes so dire that Philip Bendicott (Lawrence Grant), one of Service''s business partners, strongly urges him to sell out to Stoner, whose store chain is one of the few thriving businesses, serving a lower class clientele. Service loathes the idea, but decides he has no choice. Gossip soon spreads, especially when Stoner himself comes to inspect the department store. When he breaks the news to his family, they are all appalled. The next day, when he returns home, Caroline informs him that Isobel has run off with her lover. Caroline and Michael urge their father to keep the firm and fight on. Though gratified by their spirit and unexpected concern for the store, Service rejects their proposal. Meanwhile, Benton has started a very successful business in his own home, with his wife Lil (Doris Lloyd) baking delectable pastries and cakes and their offspring, Willie (Douglas Walton (actor)) and Elsie (Viva Tattersall), pitching in. Michael flies back from Paris and Berlin, where his family thought he was taking a vacation, instead he shows them his designs of striking furniture, which he believes could be manufactured and sold by the department store, further Caroline wants to work as well in the department store. But Service Sr. doesn''t want to take the risk and is decided to sell. Afterwards, on the way to the solicitors to sign away his store, he runs into Benton. Benton tells him about his "Benton pastries enterprise" and make him taste one. Mr. Service is very delighted by the pastry and Benton tries to get him to change his mind. When Service reads in the newspaper that the deal is already done, he is so outraged at Stoner''s impudence that he does cancel the sale, due to Benton''s example and encouragement. The last scene with Service Sr., Service Jr., Caroline, Jeoffrey Fielding (Colin Clive), Service''s assistant and Caroline''s admirer, and Benton is a optimistic scene, where the young take over helping the older to feel, that things go on. Michael Service tastes a pastry from Benton and orders 4 dozens/day for the store, Caroline wants to live on her earnings and be "very poor" to be on the level of Jeoffrey and finally the rain stops and a rainbow comes out. Together, the Services look forward to the future with optimism.'
'drama','The steamship Germania is setting sail from Bremen to New York, with a stop in Cherbourg. Dr. Veith is annoyed that he has been assigned to be the ship''s doctor, as he would rather stay home with his family. His married friend and fellow ship''s officer Baron von Luden tries to flirt with the ship''s nurse, Morgan, but she is not interested. Veith says Morgan seems to have no friends and never leaves the ship when it is in port. Dr. Veith meets his old friend Dr. Bernhard (George Brent), who is desperate to sail on the sold-out ship because his wife Sybil (Vivienne Osborne) is on board, running away with her lover, the financier Alex Stevanson (Frank Morgan). Veith arranges for Bernhard to take his place. To Bernhard''s surprise, his wife''s cabin is empty; a maid suggests that she might board at Cherbourg. Milli Lensch (Alice White), a winsome young blonde who is traveling in third class, but eager to make her way up in the world, flirts with old Edward Thorndyke (C. Aubrey Smith). Thorndyke was once a wealthy textile manufacturer, but he was ruined by Stevanson and is now seeking to start over in America. Schultz, one of Thorndyke’s former employees and now a company owner, comes down from 2nd class to invite Thorndyke (and Milli) to take tea with him tomorrow. Thorndyke turns him down, but Milli is delighted to accept. After the ship docks at Cherbourg, Bernhard goes to his wife''s cabin, but she locks the door and refuses to see him. Bernhard is called away by a medical emergency before he can break the door down. Meanwhile, Stevanson is very pleased to encounter opera singer Luise Marheim (Verree Teasdale). Stevanson sends a telegram ordering the purchase of German-American Steamship shares, causing other passengers to also rush to buy the stock. When the third-class passengers want to pool their meager funds to do the same, Thorndyke reluctantly offers to handle the transaction. Milli enjoys dancing in second class, although she fails to persuade Schultz to buy her a present. When Schultz''s business acquaintance, jewelry dealer Exl (Theodore von Eltz), comes along, she gets him to invite her up to first class. This disappoints an elevator operator (Barry Norton) who has fallen for her and promised to show her New York. After a fine dinner and champagne, Exl takes Milli to his cabin and tries to force himself on her in return for a diamond bracelet. She flees to the arms of her elevator operator and realizes that she prefers to be poor but honorable. After Bernhard delivers a baby, he confronts his wayward wife. She tells him she never loved him. When Stevanson tries to intervene, Bernard punches him and leaves. Stevanson then has his things moved to another suite, much to Sybil''s distress. Sybil finds Stevanson dining with Luise. He tells Sybil their relationship is over and he will "write her a check" to be rid of her. In his stateroom, Sybil kills Stevanson with the pistol she stole from Bernhard''s desk. Bernhard arrives moments afterwards and takes the blame. When Morgan cannot make him defend himself, she becomes greatly agitated and reveals that, five years ago, she had a husband and two children. After he left her for another woman, she tried to kill herself and her children. She was saved, but her babies died. Bernhard regrets that he did not meet her sooner. Sybil then jumps overboard, but not before leaving a note in which she admits killing Stevanson. Bernhard and Morgan decide to start a new life together as the ship pulls into New York. With Stevanson dead, the value of German-American Steamship shares plummets. The third-class passengers fear they are penniless – until Thorndyke reveals that he never invested their money.'
'drama','The film concerns an imprisoned bootlegger (Spencer Tracy) recruited from incarceration to help capture his own gang after they kidnap the daughter (Claire Trevor) of the judge who jailed him. The supporting cast includes Ralph Morgan, J. Carrol Naish, Matt McHugh, and Paul Fix, and the movie was directed by Irving Cummings.'
'comedy','While Wilbur Todd (Charlie Ruggles) is content with his middle class life, his wife Jessie (Mary Boland) aspires to a higher social stannding. She insists he wear fine clothes because she believes that clothes make the man. When his strange new clothes bring derision rather than admiration, and tired of his wife''s constant nagging, Wilbur goes off on a drunken spree and innocently becomes involved with the village vamp, Mrs. McIntosh (Lilyan Tashman).'
'western','The story is based on the requirement of Spanish land owners in California to register their lands before a deadline and the chicanery practiced by some to prevent registration.'
'western','Based upon a novel by Zane Grey, Man of the Forest involves a young lady (Verna Hillie) who is captured by a band of outlaws led by Clint Beasley (Noah Beery). Brett Dale (Randolph Scott) figures out their plan and rescues her.'
'drama, romance','Well-dressed Bill (Spencer Tracy) takes pity on Trina (Loretta Young), a hungry young woman he meets in a city park and treats her to a dinner in a fancy restaurant. After she is finished, he informs the manager he has no money. He then raises such a ruckus that the manager is all too willing to let them go. When Bill learns that Trina is also homeless, he lets her stay at his ramshackle home in a shanty town. Among their neighbors and friends are widowed former preacher Ira (Walter Connolly) and Flossie (Marjorie Rambeau), an alcoholic older woman Ira is trying to reform. Bill is a wandering sort, unwilling to live in the same place too long. Trina falls in love with him, but wisely makes no demands that will make him feel trapped in their developing relationship. When she longs for a new stove, he raises the down payment by serving a summons on Fay La Rue (Glenda Farrell), the star of a show. Far from resenting it, Fay wants him for a playmate. He is tempted, but turns her down. Just as Bill''s restless nature starts becoming too much for him, Trina tells him she is pregnant. Ira presides at Bill and Trina''s wedding. Before hitting the road by himself, Bill decides to get enough money to support his wife and future child. He agrees to help slimy neighbor Bragg (Arthur Hohl) rob the payroll from a toy factory where Bragg used to work. Ira, the night watchman, shoots Bill before recognizing him. Fortunately, it is only a flesh wound. Wanting Trina for himself, Bragg turns on the burglar alarm, but Bill gets away with Ira''s help. Back home, Trina dresses the wound. Flossie suggests that Bill take Trina away with him, solving Bill''s dilemma. After they leave, Bragg threatens to set the police on their track, but Flossie silences him with Ira''s gun.'
'drama, crime','Racketeer Patsy Gargan is made deputy commissioner of a reform school as a reward from his corrupt political cronies. Initially, he has no interest in the school, but his sympathy for the boys, who are abused and battered by a brutal, heartless warden and his thuggish guards convince him to take the job seriously, as does an attractive resident nurse named Dorothy. Gargan sends Thompson, the superintendent, on vacation and, while he is gone, puts Dorothy''s reform ideas into action. The school is functioning well under a system of self-government when Patsy is called back to the city to take care of some political business. Patsy shoots another man during a fight and has to go into hiding. Thompson returns to the school and convinces the boys that Patsy has abandoned them. He then starts running things the old way and, when Dorothy protests over the poor quality of the food served, he fires her. Then one of the boys, Johnny "Skinny" Stone, dies while in solitary confinement and the boys rebel. Thompson is put on trial by the boys, who find him guilty. Thompson, in a panic, jumps out a window to escape. Pursued by the boys, many of whom carry torches, he scrambles up onto the roof of a barn. The boys immediately set fire to the barn. Dorothy, meanwhile, finds Patsy in his hideout and tells him the whole story. Patsy races back to the school to restore order, but Thompson is dead, having fallen from the roof of the barn. At the picture''s end, Patsy decides to give up his political career and stay at the school permanently.'
'comedy','A couple of bunglers (Jimmy Durante and Jack Pearl) are abandoned in the jungles of Africa by Baron Munchausen. A rescue team mistake Pearl for the missing Baron, and take the two of them back to America where they receive a hero''s welcome. The phony Baron is invited to speak at Cuddle College, run by Dean Primrose (Edna May Oliver). There he falls for Zasu Pitts and meets three crazy janitors (The Three Stooges), and faces exposure as a fraud.'
'romantic comedy','On a cruise liner a bachelor millionaire is subject to the attention of women seeking a rich husband.'
'drama, war','Nurse Laura Mattson (Diana Wynyard) and World War I military pilot Lt. Geoffrey Aiken (Robert Young) fall in love after only knowing each other for a few days. Tragically, he is brought to her hospital and, by chance, put under her care after being fatally wounded on his very first mission. After he dies, Laura realizes she is pregnant. Edward Seward (Lewis Stone) loves her and persuades her to marry him. As far as anyone knows, the child will be his. By 1940, Laura''s son Bob has grown into a young man, newly engaged to Peggy Chase. Laura has raised Bob to embrace pacifism. Meanwhile, Edward Seward, now United States Secretary of State, flies home after having negotiated the Seward Peace Treaty, which he claims will make it impossible for any country to go to war again. However, when the U.S. ambassador to the state of "Eurasia" is assassinated while en route to the Eurasian State Department to discuss an earlier diplomatic incident, the President sends the navy across the Atlantic to underscore the U.S. demand for a formal apology. Eurasia refuses to comply, and another world war becomes inevitable despite the treaty. Laura speaks at a large peace rally, over her husband''s strong objection. The rally is broken up a group of angry men. A mob then gathers at the Seward home and starts pelting the place. Edward manages to disperse the crowd by first reminding the mob of each American''s right to voice his or her own opinion in peacetime, and pledging himself wholeheartedly to the struggle once war is declared. When a news reporter interviews him, he insists his son will enlist. Bob categorically denies this, causing Peggy to break off their engagement. Unable to get his son to change his mind, Edward tells him that he at least has no right to sully the Seward name, revealing that he is not Bob''s father. Laura confirms it, and tells Bob of his real father and how he died. War breaks out. Privately, Edward informs his wife that the war is going badly because America fell behind during the years of peace; the "Canal" has been captured by the enemy, and 12,000 U.S. troops killed in two days by enemy gas bombs. When Eurasia launches an air raid on New York City, destroying such landmarks as the Empire State Building and the Brooklyn Bridge, hundreds are killed and Laura is injured, though not seriously. Bob changes his stance and enlists, not in the chemical division as a trained chemist as Edward had suggested, but as an aviator like his real father. Bob and Peggy marry, then he departs with his squadron. As she watches Bob''s squadron fly over the city, Laura now understands that freedom is not free; that we must always be prepared to safeguard it; and we all have a responsibility to defend it.'
'drama','The story begins with an indifferent Mary Martin (Young) sitting in a courtroom, on trial for murder. As the jury leaves to deliberate her fate, the story flashbacks on Mary''s hard life as a woman living in a large city of the 1930s, as well as on the two lusty men—a gangster, Leo Darcy (Cortez), and a lawyer, Tom Mannering, Jr. (Tone)—with whom she is involved.[1]'
'comedy','Laurel and Hardy play two policemen on night patrol, hence the title. They are given instructions to investigate a reported break-in but in the process of gathering the details from HQ they stumble upon a would be thief who is attempting to crack the safe of a small store. Laurel mistakes him for the store owner, even going so far as to give assistance in the safe cracking, when Hardy enters to see what is keeping Laurel the boys manage to work out that the thief is not the store owner and rather than arrest him order him to appear in court at a date to suit the criminal. The boys head back to their car only to find the same thief attempting to steal it, angered Hardy insists that he must ''appear Tuesday'' after all (a day the criminal is planning a bank robbery). On arriving at the alleged crime scene the audience sees that the case is that the owner of the mansion got locked out and so there is no actual robber or robbery at the location. The boys however are unaware of this and attempt to break down the front door and eventually manage to succeed with great effort, having causing a great deal of damage to the property they proceed to arrest the owner of the property who they perceive to be the robber. The boys bring the suspect in to great praise by their colleagues, however the real identity of the ''robber'' soon becomes apparent as the other officers recognize him as the Chief of Police. Realizing their error Hardy explains that they are ''new'', the Chief seemingly does not accept this excuse and as the boys flee off-screen he opens fire. The other officers then remove their hats indicating that deaths have occurred and the Chief says "send for the coroner".'
'drama','Eva Lovelace (Katharine Hepburn) is a performer from a small town who has dreamed since childhood of making it big on Broadway. She has evidently gone to many auditions, but no one has given her a break. At the management office of the Easton Theatre, where she hopes to land a role, another actress, current star Rita Vernon (Mary Duncan), breezes in to see the handsome middle-aged theater owner and producer, Louis Easton (Adolphe Menjou), a consummate businessman who is well aware of his prestige in the theater world. Blonde diva Rita is high-handed and self-absorbed, with an alcohol problem as well, but she''s under verbal contract to Easton. She shamelessly flirts as she negotiates a deal; she''ll accept a small role (which she doesn''t want) in the upcoming play, for one big concession: her pick of roles in the next production. The principals are taking a risk that she''ll contain her artistic temperament and lay off the bottle. Even so, her name and fame will help launch the play, a new comedy by Joseph Sheridan (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.) Meanwhile, as she waits to see if she''ll get a chance to talk to Easton, Eva meets and impresses Robert Hedges (C. Aubrey Smith), an experienced character actor also under contract to Easton. Delighted with her childlike ebullience, Hedges agrees to help her. He takes Eva into the office and introduces her as his protegee. Sheridan, there to cast his upcoming comedy production, is also immediately struck by Eva''s vivacious and eccentric personality, A non-stop talker, Eva bubbles over with intensity about her small town bourgeois background and her belief in non-conformity and self-realization. She declares that after a long and successful career, she''ll kill herself onstage as a dramatic farewell to her fans. Joseph is entranced, but the aristocratic Easton sees her as too young and inexperienced, even somewhat crazy. Months pass. Hedges has lost touch with Eva. She frequently moves due to poor finances and hasn''t been cast in meaningful roles. Hedges finds her struggling and hungry. Eva expresses regret that Easton gave her a small role in one of his lesser plays, one which flopped. She bravely declares she won''t take any more offers, unless the role truly suits her abilities. Realizing she''s broke and basically starving, Hodges escorts her to a celebrity party at Easton''s apartment. Eva quickly downs two glasses of champagne, although she''s not a drinker. Inebriated, Eva sits on the arm of Easton''s chair, stroking his face and vowing to prove her dramatic talents to him. She makes a spectacle of herself before the bemused party guests. Then unexpectedly she gives two Shakespearean orations, Hamlet''s well-known monologue ("to be or not to be") followed by Juliet''s balcony scene. The difference in the roles demonstrates her art; she gets a polite ovation from the guests and further impresses Sheridan. Eva lays her head on Easton''s lap and promptly falls asleep. His butler put her to bed in his own bedroom. The next morning, Easton asks Sheridan for help. Easton gave in to temptation and explains the encounter through innuendo. He''s remorseful at taking advantage of a girl''s innocence and can''t face her. Joseph is devastated to learn that the overnight guest was Eva. Easton apologizes and leaves. A radiant Eva comes downstairs and sees Joseph, whom she obviously regards as "just a friend." Happily she tells him everything. To her, the night with Easton is the beginning of a long commitment. Joseph can''t bring himself to break her heart; he lets her go without explaining. Again months pass. Eva has tried numerous times to see Easton. Unwilling to face her, Easton has simply ignored her. Joseph keeps his own love a secret. Easton''s theater company is ready to showcase Joseph''s dramatic masterpiece. The play will star Rita Vernon. Joseph approves of her performance in rehearsals. Backstage on opening night, Rita calls Easton into her dressing room. Heretofore she and Easton have had only verbal agreements. Aware of the power she holds at this late hour, Rita now has outrageous demands. She wants a written contract with a huge salary increase and half the profits from the entire run of the play. Otherwise, she won''t go onstage. Easton thinks he has no choice but to comply. Joseph draws him aside. He urges Easton to let Rita go. Instead, they can bring in a special understudy, one he''s kept secret until this very moment. She is now revealed as Eva Lovelace. Easton reluctantly agrees and Rita storms off the set. Eva and Joseph end up together in the star''s dressing room. Faced with this sudden opportunity, Eva seems overcome with doubt and fear. She can''t perform with Easton in the audience; they haven''t even spoken since their night together. She feels unsure of her talents, doomed to failure. Joseph reassures her that she can handle whatever is thrown at her. She''s strong and beautiful, a born actress who can now prove it. Buoyantly, Eva rallies, gathers her self-confidence and resolves to conquer the role. The film resumes with everyone onstage taking their bows to tremendous applause. Eva is a complete success. Backstage after the amazing debut, Easton reconciles with Eva, offering her his professional friendship and aid. When he goes, Joseph gathers the courage to declare his love for Eva. Unsure of everything, Eva hushes him and makes him leave. Now she''s there with only her dresser, an elegant elderly lady who was herself once a brief star or "morning glory." The dresser comforts Eva, assuring her that she has the talent to succeed in show business and life; but really only one thing matters, true love. She knows that because she once spurned the love she was offered, choosing fame instead, at the beginning of her all too brief career. Renewed, Eva readies herself to forge down the rocky road to stardom ahead of her. The film ends with some uncertainty, but on an upbeat note. Once again self-confident, dramatic to the heart, Eva declares to her dresser, "I''m not afraid...to be a morning glory. I am not afraid!"'
'comedy','The plot involves a newspaper reporter (Ed Sullivan, aka "Mr. Broadway") gathering material for his column. The plot was patterned on a similar film by columnist Walter Winchell, Broadway Through a Keyhole (1933). The Sullivan film primarily serves as a vehicle for him to escort viewers to various trendy New York nightclubs to watch celebrities.[1]'
'mystery','Reporter Bill Bartlett is researching a piece on students, but soon finds himself investigating a murder. He hears a gunshot coming from a college bell tower, and finds himself a murder suspect when police captain Ed Kyne discovers him at the scene of the crime. Bartlett also finds himself in love with one of the chief suspects, Lillian Voyne, and is designated to cover the story as a reporter. After two more students are killed, Bartlett enlists the help of C. Edson Hawley, respected college professor and amateur detective.'
'horror','Big-game hunter and wealthy zoologist Eric Gorman (Lionel Atwill) is an insanely jealous husband who uses his animal knowledge to dispose of his impulsive wife’s lovers. The film opens in an Indian jungle with Gorman using a needle and thread to sew a colleague’s mouth closed after having discovered that he had kissed his wife, and then he seals the man’s fate by abandoning him in the jungle with the wild beasts. Gorman later pretends to be surprised at hearing that the man had been eaten by tigers. Both Gorman and his wife Evelyn (Kathleen Burke) then return to America aboard a ship packed with captured animals he intends to add to his collection at a major zoo. On the ship, Evelyn starts to develop promiscuous relations with Roger Hewitt (John Lodge), which she makes little effort to hide from her husband. Naturally, the murderously jealous Gorman takes notice. So once back in the States, he begins to plot a way to get rid of Hewitt. The zoo is beginning to run into financial trouble and the new press agent, Peter Yates (Charles Ruggles), a man terrified of most of the zoo’s animals and considered to be an alcoholic, decides to host a fundraising dinner. Gorman takes this as a perfect opportunity to dispense his vengeance by poisoning Hewitt with mamba venom. He had obtained the poison after asking the zoo’s laboratory doctor, Jack Woodford (Randolph Scott), to work on finding an antitoxin for the snake’s fatal bite. When Hewitt unexpectedly dies at the fundraising dinner, Evelyn accuses her husband of being the murderer. Outraged, Gorman attacks her, but she is able to escape into his office where she finds a mechanical mamba head seeping with real mamba poison in his desk. She now knows for a fact that he killed Hewitt and takes the snake head with the intention to find Dr. Woodford. However, Gorman finds her and prevents her from revealing his crime by throwing her to the alligators, where she is torn to shreds. The following day a group of children who sneak into the zoo discover tattered remains of Evelyn’s dress. Dr. Woodford then becomes suspicious and accuses Gorman of murdering both his wife and Rodger Hewitt. Gorman disposes of Dr. Woodford by attacking him with the mechanical snake head just as he had done to Hewitt. The doctor''s assistant Jerry (Gail Patrick) gives Woodford a shot of the antitoxin he had created for the mamba poison in time to save his life. She also realizes that Gorman is responsible for the apparent mamba attack when he tries to stop her, and has the zoo''s alarms set off. A police chase thus ensues as Gorman is pursued through the zoo. Gorman releases big cats from the carnivore house in the hopes of distracting the police, but it backfires and a lion chases Gorman into the cage of a boa constrictor, who then slowly kills and devours him. In the epilogue, Jerry visits a convalescing Dr. Woodford in the hospital. The stress, meanwhile, has caused Yates to fall off the wagon, and he is seen fearlessly meandering through the zoo, even swatting on the nose a still free lion that had been stalking him.'
'horror','Ivan Igor (Lionel Atwill) is a sculptor who operates a wax museum in 1921 London. He gives a private tour to a friend, Dr. Rasmussen (Holmes Herbert) and an investor, Mr. Galatalin (Claude King) showing them sculptures of Joan of Arc, Voltaire, and his favorite, Marie Antoinette. Formerly a stone sculptor who did wax modeling as a hobby, he explains he turned to wax sculpting completely because he felt more "satisfied" that he could reproduce "the warmth, flesh, and blood of life far better in wax than in cold stone". Mr. Galatalin, impressed by his sculptures, offers to submit Igor''s work to the Royal Academy after he returns from a trip to Egypt. Unfortunately business at the museum is failing due to people''s attraction to the macabre (a nearby wax museum caters to that). Igor''s partner Joe Worth (Edwin Maxwell) proposes to burn the museum down for the insurance money of £10,000. Igor will not allow such a travesty, but Worth starts a fire anyway. Igor tries to stop him and he and Worth get into a fight. As they fight, wax masterworks are melting in the flames. Worth knocks Igor unconscious, leaving the sculptor to die in the fire. Igor survives, however, and reemerges in 1933, 12 years later, in New York City, reopening a new wax museum. His hands and legs have been badly crippled in the fire and he must rely on assistants to create his new sculptures. Meanwhile, spunky reporter Florence Dempsey (Glenda Farrell), on the verge of being fired for not bringing in any worthwhile news, is sent out by her impatient editor, Jim (Frank McHugh), to investigate the suicide of a model named Joan Gale (Monica Bannister). During this time, a hideous monster steals the body of Joan Gale from the morgue. When investigators find that her body has been stolen, they suspect murder. The finger initially points to George Winton (Gavin Gordon), son of a powerful industrialist, but after visiting him in jail, Florence thinks differently. Florence''s roommate is Charlotte Duncan (Fay Wray), whose fiancé Ralph (Allen Vincent) works at Igor''s new wax museum. While visiting the museum, Florence notices an uncanny resemblance between a wax figure of Joan of Arc and the dead model. At the same time, Igor spots Charlotte and remarks on her resemblance to his sculpture of Marie Antoinette. Igor employs a couple of shady characters: Professor Darcy (Arthur Edmund Carewe), a drug addict, and Hugo (Matthew Betz), a deaf-mute. Darcy also works for Joe Worth, now a bootlegger in the city, among whose customers is none other than Winton. While investigating an old house where Worth keeps his bootlegged alcohol, Florence discovers a monster connected with the museum, but cannot prove any connection with the disappearance of Joan Gale''s body. Darcy is seen running from the house and is caught by the police. When brought to the station, he eventually breaks down and admits that Igor is in fact the killer and that he has been murdering people (including a missing judge whose watch was found on Darcy''s person), stealing their bodies, and dipping them in wax to create lifelike sculptures. Charlotte, visiting Ralph at the museum, is trapped there by Igor, who it is revealed can still walk. When Charlotte tries to get away, she pounds away at his face, breaking a wax mask that he has made of himself, to reveal that he had been horribly disfigured. He also shows her the dead body of Joe Worth, whom Darcy had been tracking down for him for some time. When she faints, he straps her onto a table, intending to douse her with molten wax and make her his lost Marie Antoinette sculpture. Florence leads the police to the museum just in time: for a man supposedly crippled by fire, Igor moves with surprising speed and agility, successfully fighting off the police, but is finally gunned down. He falls into a giant vat of wax which was intended for Charlotte. Charlotte is saved when Ralph moves away the table she is strapped to from where the wax is about to pour onto her. When Florence reports her story to her editor, Jim, he proposes to her. Having to choose between money (Winton) and happiness (Jim), she picks the latter.'
'drama','In South America, the daunting mountains and dangerous weather have hampered the operations of Trans-Andean European Air Mail, a 1930s-era airline. Charged with delivering a serum to stem an outbreak of infantile paralysis in Rio de Janeiro, Auguste Pellerin (Robert Montgomery) conquers his fears, but is reprimanded by the airline''s stern director, A. Riviére (John Barrymore) for coming in late. Determined to make the night flight program work, Riviére has sent pilot Jules Fabian (Clark Gable) and his wireless operator on another dangerous flight. The pair are caught in a torrential rain storm and when Madame Fabian (Helen Hayes) comes to the headquarters, she realizes that her husband is overdue. The two airmen, flying blind over the ocean, run out of fuel and choose to jump, but are drowned. Riviére refuses to quit and orders a Brazilian pilot (William Gargan) to take the mail to Rio, but the pilot''s wife (Myrna Loy) pleads with him not to go. Despite the dangers, the night mail is delivered on time. The pilot despairs that his flight only meant that someone in Paris can get a postcard on Tuesday instead of Thursday, but its real value is proven when the serum is also delivered and a child is saved.'
'horror','Police have been vainly searching the countryside for the knife-wielding Maniac, who has been on a murderous spree. The Maniac''s victims are each found with a taunting newspaper clipping attached to their body. After the wealthy uncle of a young scientist is mysteriously murdered, people wonder if the Maniac is responsible. Prior to his uncle''s death, the young scientist in question, Dr. Arthur Hornsby, claimed to have developed a method of living without oxygen for extended periods. To prove his theory, he had himself buried after taking a dose of the serum. Despite his incapacity, the death of his uncle leaves a vast fortune, which is to be divided amongst his family members and servants. In the event that one or more them dies, the inheritance is split among the remaining survivors. Subsequently, members of the family begin to die, one-by-one, and suspicion is cast on the servants, including the "mystic" butler (Bela Lugosi). At the end, we discover that Dr. Hornsby faked his burial and was using it as a cover for committing the murders. His plan was to kill any other heirs to his uncle''s fortune so that he may obtain sole possession. His plan is eventually discovered and exposed by the butler. The Maniac is shot, and apparently killed, by the newspaper reporter, Tom Hartley; but in the closing moments of the film, he comes back to life and claims that he will haunt the audience if they reveal the plot twist to anyone.'
'romance','Anna (Irene Dunne) yearns to escape from Pittsburgh and tells her boyfriend, steelworker Jim Stanley (Charles Bickford) that she will never marry a steelworker, but he changes her mind. After their marriage, however, she does not abandon her dream; she gets as much money as she can and runs a boarding house to build up their savings. When her friend Joe (Eric Linden) discovers a way to make a permanent dye out of the waste products of the steel mill, she sees her chance. Despite his initial opposition, Jim supports his wife. He tells Joe that he can either sell his invention to the mill owners or they can go into partnership and manufacture the dye themselves. Joe chooses the latter, and Jim builds up the business and becomes extremely rich. Anna resides in a mansion with their young son, Bobbie. On a business trip to New York City, Jim is attracted to golddigger Margot (Gwili Andre) and they begin an affair. When Anna finds out, she confronts her husband. He says he loves Margot and wants a divorce, but Anna refuses to give him one, forcing him to take her to court. At the trial, several bribed witnesses claim that Anna herself has a lover. Under the relentless questioning of Jim''s lawyer, Bonelli (J. Carrol Naish), she breaks down in tears. When she learns that she will lose custody of Bobbie, Anna desperately claims that Jim is not the boy''s father. This claim causes Jim to admit he paid his servants to perjure themselves and is sentenced to jail. While in prison, his business is wiped out by the scandal and he is left penniless. When he is released after a year, he is too ashamed to go see his wife. He returns to work in the steel mill, but she finds and embraces him.'
'crime','A good-hearted and patriotic Italian immigrant barber Tony Pasqual (Leo Carrillo) who takes pity on embittered war veteran Bob Richards (Eddie Garr). When Richards robs him, Pasqual responds by helping Richards find a job. Richards dies while trying to rescue young Dickie Chester (Dickie Moore) from illicit gambling, and Pasqual takes in Chester and his mother (Lois Wilson). Big Joe Reardon (Henry Clive) is unsuccessful in using public displays of charitable good deeds to fool Pasqual into believing that he''s not the neighborhood crime boss, so he has the barber shop destroyed. Pasqual gets Reardon apprehended by the police by telling his story on radio.[1]'
'drama','An orphan boy in 1830s London is abused in a workhouse, then falls into the clutches of a gang of thieves.'
'romantic comedy','Dr. Lucius Griffith "Biff" Grimes (Gary Cooper) is a small town dentist dissatisfied with his lot. Though married to the lovely and affectionate Amy Lind Grimes (Frances Fuller), Grimes still carries a torch for his former sweetheart, Virginia "Virgie" Brush Barnstead (Fay Wray). Years earlier, Grimes had lost Virgie to his old friend Hugo Barnstead (Neil Hamilton), and is consumed with the desire to get even with his rival. The now-wealthy Hugo comes to visit Grimes, with Virgie in tow. Grimes then seeks to rekindle his old romance.'
'drama','Unlike in the Zweig story, in the end Emerson acknowledges his son.[7]'
'comedy','Just after her wedding, American hardware heiress Pearl Saunders overhears her husband, Lord George Grayston, telling his mistress that he only married her for her money. Disillusioned, she grows hard and cynical. Five years later, she has made herself a force among the British upper class with her parties. Among her friends are divorced Duchess Minnie, gossip-loving Thornton Clay, philanthropic Princess Flora, and Arthur Fenwick, her wealthy and adoring lover. Arthur discreetly provides her with a much-needed regular allowance, as her now absent husband has squandered most of her fortune. Pearl introduces her younger sister Bessie to English aristocracy and especially to eligible young bachelor Lord Harry Bleane. Bessie is seduced by the glamour of high society. When her former fiance, Fleming Harvey, comes to see her, it becomes clear to him that she no longer loves him. Harry proposes to Bessie; she accepts, though she tells him only that she likes him very much. Pearl''s social circle spends a weekend at the Grayston country estate. There, Minnie''s gigolo, Pepi D''Costa, privately woos Pearl. Eventually, she has a rendezvous with him in the detached teahouse. However, this is detected by Minnie. She maliciously sends an unsuspecting Bessie to fetch her purse, whereupon Bessie sees too much. Her suspicions confirmed, Minnie denounces Pearl before the others. Arthur is furious and disheartened. Pearl''s feelings are not hurt; she is more concerned about it becoming known. Pearl delays Minnie''s departure for London and, through her wiles, manages to make up with both Minnie and Arthur. Minnie even forgives Pepi, finally agreeing to marry him. She then convinces Minnie to stay another night and learn the latest tango steps from effete dance instructor Ernest. When Bessie expresses her disgust with her sister''s behavior, however, Pearl is truly hurt. She has second thoughts and persuades Harry to break the engagement. Bessie asks a delighted Fleming to take her away.'
'drama','United States Marine Corps Lieutenants and pilots Bill Keller (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.) and "Toodles" Cooper (Frank McHugh) are shot down in the skies over Nicaragua. When they are found drunk and unharmed in a cantina, they and the Marine Corps go their separate ways. They are offered jobs as commercial pilots, but when they arrive in New York City, they find their would-be employer has gone bankrupt. Unemployed and almost out of money, they meet blonde Southerner Patricia "Alabama" Brent (Bette Davis). Keller convinces her to share their apartment to save on expenses. Keller narrowly escapes death when he parachute jumps for some money. Next, he becomes the chauffeur for Mrs. Newberry (Claire Dodd), the mistress of gangster Kurt Weber (Leo Carrillo). She makes it clear that she expects more than just being driven around by him. Weber comes in and finds Mrs. Newberry kissing Keller. He kicks her out, but is impressed by the cool way Keller handles himself when threatened with a gun. Weber hires him as his bodyguard. By chance, Alabama gets hired by Weber as a secretary. Later, Keller and Cooper become entangled in Weber''s smuggling schemes, flying in contraband from Canada. On the return trip, Keller shoots down two airplanes who intercept and fire upon him, thinking they are hijackers when they are really part of the Border Patrol. Fortunately, there are no fatalities. Weber and his henchman Steve Donovan (Harold Huber) set a trap for two disgruntled, unpaid ex-employees; Donovan guns them down in cold blood, intending to frame Keller, but Alabama overhears and calls Keller away from the scene. As a result, Keller hands in his resignation, but Weber persuades him and Cooper to make one more delivery for him. After Cooper leaves, Keller learns that they have been smuggling not liquor, but narcotics. The authorities close in on Weber''s office; Weber and Keller get away, but Weber leaves Donovan behind to get shot down. Weber has Keller fly him away. The Border Patrol catches up and shoots them down. Keller has time to arrange it to look like Weber was the pilot and he was a kidnap victim. Unable to find work, Cooper decides to rejoin the Marines. Keller finally finds Alabama and asks her to marry him, saying that he can support her if he too reenlists in the Corps.[2]'
'romance','When Sylvia Day (Mae Clarke) is caught trying to pull a scam on the Taylor Department Store in New York City, she pleads with the store manager to let her go, but his boss, Joe Smith (Ralph Bellamy), insists on following store policy, and she is handed over to the police, convicted and sentenced to a year in prison. Sylvia is consumed with the idea of getting revenge on Joe. She becomes friends with chatty fellow inmate Jeanie Vance (Marie Prevost), who offers to team up with her (and commit more crimes) once they have served their time. When Sylvia learns that Jeanie has a surprising connection to Joe, she decides to get out early. She sets a fire, then passes out from the smoke while trying to put it out. For her "heroism", she is granted parole. Tony Gratton (Hale Hamilton), her partner in the failed con, tries to talk her into marrying him and going to Chicago to continue their life of crime, but she is determined to avenge herself. Besides, she knows that Tony is already married. Sylvia stalks Joe, learning all she can about him. Then, she pretends to be an old acquaintance at a nightclub where Joe is celebrating his promotion to general manager by getting drunk. The next morning, Joe discovers her in his apartment. She informs him that they have gotten married. Joe laughs, then tells her that he already has a wife. She tells him she knows (it is Jeanie), then reveals her motives. Tony shows up, masquerading as the person who married them; he gives Joe the marriage license the couple supposedly left behind. Threatened with a charge of bigamy, Joe reluctantly agrees to support Sylvia for a year, the length of her parole. Tony tries again to get Sylvia to be his partner in crime. When she refuses, he slips a counterfeit $20 bill in her purse. Sylvia goes on a shopping spree and pays for some of her purchases with the bill. It is traced back to her, but when a policeman shows up to take her back to jail, Joe pretends that she took the money out of his pants pocket. As a store manager, he deals with counterfeit money all the time. The ploy works, and Jeanie sends back her extravagant purchases. Later, Joe calls her from the office and asks her for a favor. Mr. Taylor (Ferdinand Gottschalk), the store''s somewhat eccentric owner, has found out that Joe is married, so he is coming to dinner at their apartment. While Sylvia is cooking, Jeanie arrives. Her friend has been released early and intends to blackmail her husband (whom she married long ago while he was in college and then lost track of), once she can locate him, before heading to Florida with Sylvia. Sylvia gets her to leave before Joe and Mr. Taylor show up (early) by promising to give her a decision the next day. Taylor insists on doing the cooking; he is fed up with being waited on by servants. He becomes very fond of the couple and hints at a promotion to vice president if they were to have a baby. The next day, Sylvia persuades Jeanie that it is too dangerous to try blackmail in New York because of her record and agrees to go with her to Florida. Sylvia leaves a letter for Joe explaining everything, ending with the admission "I love you". On the train, however, Jeanie reveals that she divorced Joe without his knowledge. Sylvia gets off and rushes back to the apartment; Joe has already read the letter and takes her in his arms.'
'drama','Mary Holmes (MacKellar), once a famous opera star known as Maria di Nardi, now lives in a run-down shanty and suffers from alcoholism. Known for her eccentric behavior, Mary breeds geese, and is thus known in her neighborhood as ''The Goose Woman''. She blames her grown son Geoffrey (Linden) for the deterioration of her voice, and does everything to destroy his life. When Geoffrey, who works as a commercial artist, announces to her that he will marry Joan Hoyt (Arthur), an actress, she becomes torn with jealousy and threatens to reveal to Joan that he is an illegitimate birth. Not allowing his mother the satisfaction of destroying his life, Geoffrey decides to break the news to Joan himself. Joan, who has just ended an affair with a womanizing theatre backer, G. K. Ethridge (Clement), calmly accepts his news and tells him that she wants to proceed their wedding plans. Geoffrey then breaks ties with his mother and heads out to Chicago, on an assignment. Meanwhile, Jacob Riggs (Simpson), a doorman at the Ethridge theatre, shoots and kills his boss on the evening when he is awaiting his final rendezvous with Joan, due to his constant affairs with innocent women. Mary, who lives next to the place where the crime is committed, sees opportunity in getting recognition and fame as Maria di Nardi, after hearing the gunshots. She fabricates a sensational story for the press and media, unaware that her story implicates Geoffrey as a prime suspect. Following a drunken testimony by Mary, Geoffrey is indicted on circumstantial evidence by a grand jury. Despite denying the testimony when she realizes what she is doing to Geoffrey, he is found guilty and sent to jail, awaiting the death penalty. Overcome with grief, Mary uses Joan''s help to convince Jacob to turn himself in for the crime. After successfully revealing him as the murderer, Geoffrey is freed from jail and can finally mary Joan. Mary burns down her shanty as a symbolic gesture to leave behind her past, in order to join Geoffrey and her daughter-in-law in a joyful future.'
'crime','Attorney Jack Durant (Warner Baxter) successfully defends racketeer Tony Gaziotti (Nat Pendleton) against a high-profile murder charge and waives his fee. His staid law firm feels his taking the racketeer on as a client reflects badly on them; when he refuses to give up his exciting new line of work, they go their separate ways. His upper class girlfriend Sue Leonard (Martha Sleeper) turns down his proposal and breaks up with him for the same reason. Shortly afterward, Sue agrees to marry Tom Siddall (Phillips Holmes), but only if he gives up his mistress, Mimi Montagne (Mae Clarke). Although Tom offers Mimi a generous settlement, she becomes furious. Mimi quickly returns to her former lover, gangster Jim Crelliman (C. Henry Gordon). He has her get Tom to meet her at a raucous party. After they go out on the balcony to talk, a shot is heard; the revelers find Mimi dead, and Tom with a revolver in his hand. A pawnbroker named Levitoff tells the police that he sold Tom the gun the same day. Sue begs Jack to defend Tom. He agrees, even though he gets an anonymous phone call telling him to stay out of it. Jack asks Tony to find out what he can. Tony introduces him to Gertie Waxted (Myrna Loy), who was Mimi''s friend and at the party. She tells him that she arrived after the murder, but he thinks she still may know something useful, so he invites her to spend the night in his suite. To her great surprise, however, he sleeps on the couch. The next morning, Sue asks Jack to drop the case because she has received a call threatening his life. When Gertie appears in Jack''s robe, Sue hastily departs, even though Gertie tells her that Jack is still in love with her. Jack questions the pawnbroker without success. After he leaves, Levitoff is murdered. Jack goes to Gertie''s apartment (directly across from the murder scene) to get some clothes for her. Crelliman shows up and offers him $200,000 to take a long vacation. When Jack turns him down, Crelliman threatens him. Jack leaves and breaks into the apartment directly above Gertie''s, which he has learned belongs to Murtoch (George E. Stone), one of Crelliman''s gunmen. From the entry and exit wounds on Mimi''s body, he is sure the murderer was situated higher up; the angle from Murtoch''s window is about right. A helpful elevator operator warns Jim that Crelliman''s men are waiting for him in the lobby and leads him to the service elevator. Jack sees Gertie in a club with Murtoch and jumps to conclusions. When she returns to Jack''s apartment, he is mad until she tells him that she had to get Murtoch out of his apartment so Jack would not run into him when he broke in. He apologizes and admits he has fallen in love with her. He asks Gertie to marry him, but they are interrupted by a phone call from Tony, who has found out that Crelliman has decided to have Murtoch killed. Jack takes along Police Lieutenant "Steve" Stevens (Robert Emmett O''Connor) and several of his men to trick Murtoch into confessing. Gertie volunteers to lure Crelliman out onto the roof of the other building. After capturing Murtoch, Jack tells him that they will frame him for Crelliman''s impending murder. Murtoch eventually cracks and confesses. Meanwhile, Gertie tells Crelliman that she frightened Jack into accepting his offer, but he does not believe her and tells his men to take her "for a ride". Jack and the police hear gunfire. When they rush over, they find Crelliman and his henchmen all dead. Gertie and Tony are in the next room. Tony saved Gertie, but he himself collapses and dies from a gunshot wound. Later, Gertie is packing to leave, thinking that Jack is getting back together with Sue. He tells Gertie that he wants to marry her and take her to Europe. When she reminds him she is no lady, he tells her she will do until one comes along.'
'adventure','Four mail order brides from New Orleans and a young girl conned into a non-existing job in Brazil find adventure, danger and romance in the jungle.[2]'
'drama','After getting out of prison, Danny Kean (James Cagney) shocks the gang he leads by quitting. He wants his first stint in jail to be his last, and he has always dreamed of becoming a newspaper reporter. He hands leadership over to Jerry "the Mug" (Ralf Harolde), even though he suspects Jerry sold him out. Al McLean (Ralph Bellamy), the city editor of the sleazy Graphic News, had offered him a job when he got out, but when Danny shows up, Al is reluctant to take him on. Just then, Al''s boss, Grover (Robert Barrat), laments that nobody has gotten a photograph of Hennessy (G. Pat Collins), a fireman who responded to a fire at the fireman''s own house, found the dead bodies of his wife and her lover, and barricaded himself in the ruins with a gun. Danny sneaks in, pretends to be an insurance adjuster to lull Hennessy''s suspicions, and steals his wedding picture. As a result, Danny is made a staff photographer. When some journalism students take a tour of the Graphic News (an example of everything not to do), Danny is attracted to Pat Nolan (Patricia Ellis). She goes out on a date with him, much to the annoyance of "sob sister" reporter Allison (Alice White), who makes it quite clear that she wants Danny too, though she is Al''s girlfriend. A complication arises when Danny discovers that not only is Pat''s father, Casey (Robert Emmett O''Connor), a police lieutenant, but Casey was the one who shot him (six times) and caught him. Naturally, Casey orders his daughter to stay away from Danny. However, Al gets him to change his mind by arranging for another newspaper to print a flattering story about him that gets him promoted to captain. When a woman is scheduled to be executed at Sing Sing, the Graphic News is the only paper not invited. Danny steals the invitation of another reporter, but finds that it is not transferable. However, Captain Nolan is in charge of the proceedings and lets him in. Casey takes a picture of the woman in the electric chair using a hidden camera strapped to his ankle (echoing the real-life photo taken of murderer Ruth Snyder in 1928). The other reporters find out and inform the police. A wild car chase ensues, but Danny delivers his prize to Grover and is handsomely rewarded. The photograph is printed on the front page. However, Pat breaks up with him after her father is demoted as a result. Al arranges for Danny to hide from the angry police at Allison''s apartment, as she will be out of town covering another story. She returns early and eagerly embraces an uninterested Danny. Al comes in at that moment, and Danny loses his best friend. Danny takes to drinking to drown his sorrows. Al tracks him down and apologizes; he has found out about Allison. Al announces he has quit drinking (which had lost him jobs at all the respectable newspapers) and quit the News. They find out that Jerry the Mug has killed two policemen during a robbery and is the target of a massive manhunt. They realize that if Danny can find him, the scoop will get them jobs at any paper. Danny tracks Jerry down and pretends to be on his side. The police find his hideout without Danny''s help, and a fierce shootout ensues. Danny secretly takes photographs of Jerry''s last moments as he''s being shot. When the police break in, Danny claims that he was working undercover for Nolan, which earns him a promotion back to captain. Danny and Pat are reunited, and the inside story is Danny and Al''s passport to jobs on the Daily Record.'
'comedy','Andrew Poole (Roland Young) has lost his wealth in the Depression. Seeing his personal estate going under the auction hammer and with no immediate prospects, he plans to release his fiancée, Shirley (Genevieve Tobin), from their engagement. Instead, she insists that they marry immediately and subsist on her salary while he finishes a novel, and Andrew accepts. A year later, she is involved with her work and he is a nagging househusband, consumed by jealousy of her life at the office. When matters come to a head, they agree to separate vacations. Shirley departs on a cruise ship, and Andrew furtively gets a job as the ship''s barber in order to spy on (and disrupt) her dealings with other men. Shirley enjoys a serious flirtation with passenger Richard Orloff (Ralph Forbes) and he asks her to leave her cabin unlocked for him on the night of a big party. Tipsy, Shirley accidentally leaves her door unlocked, so Andrew ties Orloff''s cabin door shut and slips into his wife''s room in the dark. The next morning she is mortified when Orloff apologizes for having been unable to keep the tryst. She also finds her engraved cigarette case missing, and nervously eyes the cases of other passengers, wondering who was in her room. She decides to return home early, and Orloff arrives at the Pooles'' home to visit a few moments before Andrew, making for an awkward meeting, as the two had met on the ship. As Orloff makes his excuses and departs, Andrew flashes the cigarette case and all is made clear. Shirley also catches a glimpse of the case, and- pretending to have known all along that Andrew was on board- coyly advises her husband to knock the next time he enters a lady''s room. With that, she disappears into her room, and Andrew knocks.'
'romantic comedy','Agustina has been away at school when she returns home to Madrid to see the mother she hasn''t seen in over eight years. Delighted at the visit, Agustina''s mother, Elena, is dismayed at her daughter''s conservative appearance. Elena re-does Agustina''s dress, which Agustina''s boyfriend, Manolo, disapproves of when he arrives the next day. When Agustina''s father Enrique arrives to woo Elena to return to him, he sees that the only way that Manolo''s parents will approve of his marriage to Agustina is if he can remove Agustina from Elena''s influence. He invites Elena to return with him to his ranch, but Elena wishes to remain in Madrid and pursue her opera career. The two live apart so that Enrique can see to his ranch while she pursues her career. Agustina guilts her mother into going to the ranch, and the two, along with a coterie of Elena''s friends, as well as Manolo, travel to visit Enrique. The large group quickly makes themselves at home. As the group cavorts scantily clad outfits, Manolo is angered by Agustina''s lack of decorum. Agustina leaves in a huff, followed by a friend of her mother''s, Juan Manuel, an attaché of the Brazilian Embassy in Madrid. Caught in a storm, the couple seeks shelter in the caretaker''s cottage on Enrique''s farm. Meanwhile, Enrique orders Elena''s friends to leave his ranch, which they do, however Elena begins to pack to follow them. When Juan and Agustina return to the main house, Juan seeks out Elena to tell her that he has fallen in love with her daughter. Delighted at the news, she embraces him, which is seen by Enrique, who gets the wrong impression and orders Juan from his home. However Juan returns the next morning and proposes to Agustina, she accepts and the two leave on their way to Juan''s next post in Tokyo. Enrique, realizing his mistaken jealousy, chases after Elena, who is about to board a steamship. Knowing they love one another, but not knowing whether they should return to the ranch or to Madrid, they flip a coin. When it lands in the water, they decide to split their time between the two.'
'mystery','In France, United States State Department employee Donald Free (William Powell) is caught trying to steal French state papers. Free is released from his job and is deported. Back in the US, Free has a hard time finding another job due to the Great Depression. Free convinces Dan Hogan (Arthur Hohl), the crooked and incompentent owner of the Peerless Detective Agency, to partner with him. Without Free''s knowledge, Hogan becomes financed with gangster Tony Bandor (Gordon Westcott) and business booms. Bandor complains that a society woman, Janet Reynolds (Margaret Lindsay), is winning too much at his gambling tables and hires Hogan to find some scandal he can use to prevent her from collecting her winnings. Hogan assigns Free, without telling him the truth behind the request. But, while keeping an eye on Janet, Free falls in love with her. When Janet informs Bandor that she wants to collect her winnings, Hogan suggests to Bandor that they make Janet think she has killed Bandor under suspicious conditions. Hogan then double-crosses Bandor by hiring a thug to shoot him after Janet leaves the apartment. Janet not knowing what to do, asks Free to help her. Free learns the identity of Bandor''s actual killer and traces him back to Hogan. Meanwhile, Hogan tries to blackmail Janet. After Free has Hogan arrested, he is offered his old job again, but tells Janet that it is not the sort of life he could ask anyone to share with him so he leaves. As he is leaving, Janet proposes to him and he accepts.'
'comedy','While working as a barroom bouncer, sailor Steve Morgan (Max Baer) impresses alcoholic ex-boxing manager "the Professor" (Walter Huston) with his skills. The Professor talks Steve into entering a prize fight with an up-and-coming boxer to make money for both of them. While out training on the road, Steve is nearly run over by a speeding car that crashes into a ditch. He carries nightclub singer Belle Mercer (Myrna Loy) out of the wreckage. Though she is attracted to him, she refuses to have anything to do with Steve. He learns where she lives and goes to see her anyway. He is too cocky to be concerned when she reveals that she is the girlfriend of well-known gangster Willie Ryan (Otto Kruger). When Willie finds out, Belle reassures him she is in control of her emotions. Willie is not so certain about that, but is too shrewd to have Steve killed out of hand by his bodyguard, whom he jokingly calls his "Adopted Son" (Robert McWade). It turns out that he had cause for concern; Steve persuades Belle to marry him. Deeply in love with Belle himself and still hoping to get her back, Willie lets Steve live. Steve quickly rises through the boxing ranks. However, he cannot keep from fooling around with other women. When Belle catches him in a lie, she tells him that she loves him, but if he cheats on her once more, she will leave him. While waiting for a bout for the heavyweight championship of the world, Steve performs in a musical revue. When Belle unexpectedly goes to his dressing room, she finds a woman hiding there. It is the end of their marriage. She gets her old job back with Willie. Anxious to see the overconfident Steve humiliated, Willie finds out what is holding up the match with the current champion, Primo Carnera (playing himself), and pays $25,000 to set it up. When the Professor tries to get Steve to train properly (without women and liquor), Steve gets angry and slaps him, ending their partnership. The championship bout is refereed by boxing promoter and former champion Jack Dempsey (himself). Belle, Willie and the Professor are all in attendance. For most of the ten-round fight, Steve gets pummeled by the much heavier Carnera. Finally, a distraught Belle urges the Professor to forget his wounded pride and go to Steve''s corner to provide much needed advice. With his old friend and his ex-wife rooting him on, a heartened Steve makes a furious comeback in the final rounds. The match ends in a draw; Carnera retains his title. Later, Willie enters Belle''s nightclub dressing room and tells her she is fired. Then he brings Steve in and leaves the couple alone to reconcile.'
'romantic comedy','Glory Eden (Ginger Rogers) is the "Purity Girl" of the Ippsie Wippsie Hour radio program. The show''s sponsor, Sam Ipswich (Gregory Ratoff), discovered the orphan and made her a star in three months. He needs her public image to match her pure radio persona to promote Ippsie Wippsie, "the washcloth of queens". However, Glory longs to be a party girl, going out to nightclubs, drinking, dancing, meeting men and having a good time. All she can do is listen with envy to what her African-American maid Vera (Theresa Harris) does in Harlem after work. Ipswich is anxious for her to sign a new contract, but she throws a tantrum and refuses, as it explicitly prohibits all the things she wants to do. Along with everything else she has missed out on, she wants a sweetheart. Speed Dennis (Frank McHugh), Ipswich''s press agent, considers this a great idea. He thinks the man should be "Anglo-Saxon" (to appeal to the corn belt), while Herbert (Franklin Pangborn), Glory''s dressmaker, insists he be under 25. Ipswich''s secretary tells them that the "purest Anglo-Saxons" hail from the hills of Kentucky, so Glory picks a fan letter at random from those written by young Kentucky men and ends up with 23-year-old Jim Davey (Norman Foster). She likes the enclosed photo of him. Ipswich, Speed and Herbert want her to choose someone else, but when "sob sister" reporter Elmerada de Leon (ZaSu Pitts) comes to interview Glory, she spots the photo, so they have to play along. Speed goes to Kentucky and persuades the reluctant rural hick to accept a ten-day stay in New York. When he arrives, the press expects him to marry her, so Speed prompts the bashful Jim into romancing Glory. The wedding is conducted on-air. Kelsey (Edgar Kennedy) assigns O''Connor (Allen Jenkins) to try steal Glory away for his own radio program, sponsored by the Kelsey Dish Rag Company. O''Connor offers Jim help to slip away with Glory for a private honeymoon in Atlantic City, away from the press. Naive, Jim is stunned when he finds out that O''Connor is doing all this just to get Glory to sign with Kelsey and that the marriage is just a publicity stunt. At first, Jim insists that Glory wants to retire from show business and settle down, but when she learns the Kelsey contract has no restrictions on how she lives her life, she is eager to sign. Jim decides to take matters into his own hands, taking his wife home to rural Kentucky. At first, Glory is miffed, but the couple settle their differences (after a spanking and a punch to the jaw). As they are settling into country life, Speed arrives, but is unable to persuade Glory to return. He comes up with an idea. He gets Ipswich to let Vera sing as the Purity Girl that night. His plan backfires. Glory does become jealous, as he intended, but O''Connor is present, and she signs his contract. When the couple go to New York, Jim refuses to let his wife perform without him. Speed has hired him for Ippsie Wippsie as a poet. To solve the problem, the two sponsors join forces, merging their companies to form Ippsie-Kelsey Clothies, and have the young couple perform together.'
'drama','Queen Christina of Sweden (Greta Garbo) is very devoted to her country and the welfare of her people. As queen, Christina favors peace for Sweden. At one point in the film, she argues for an end to the Thirty Years'' War, saying: Christina, who first took the throne at age six upon the death of her father in battle, is depicted as so devoted to both governing well and educating herself that she has spurned any kind of serious romance or marriage despite pressures from her councilors and court to marry her hero-cousin Karl Gustav (Reginald Owen) and produce an heir. One day, in an effort to escape the restrictions of her royal life, she sneaks out of town, disguised as a man, and ends up snowbound at an inn, where she has to share a bed with also stranded Spanish envoy Antonio (John Gilbert) on his way to the capital. After befriending, and upon revealing that she is a woman, then sharing the same bed, the two fall in love; however, she still has not revealed that she is the queen. After a few idyllic nights together, Christina and Antonio are compelled to part, but Christina promises to find him in Stockholm – which she does, when the Spaniard presents his embassy to the Queen, whom he recognizes as his lover. Antonio is angry as he has come to present an offer of marriage from the King of Spain to Queen Christina and feels that his loyalty to the king has been compromised. She makes clear that she will not accept the king''s proposal, and Christina and Antonio patch up their differences. When Count Magnus (Ian Keith), who wants the Queen''s affections for his own, riles up the people against the Spaniard, Christina abdicates the throne, nominating her cousin Karl Gustav as her successor while declining to marry him. She leaves Sweden to catch up with Don Antonio who has just left for a neighboring country, but she finds him gravely wounded from a sword duel he had with Magnus, which he lost. Antonio dies in her arms. She resolves to proceed with her voyage to Spain where she envisions residing in Antonio''s home on the white cliffs overlooking the sea.'
'romantic comedy','Mary Carroll (Ginger Rogers) is a young woman from upstate who came to New York City to find a job and a career, but whose money has almost run out. Both she and Jack Bacon (Norman Foster), an aspiring artist who lives in the same Greenwich Village building, are behind on their rent and their landlord, Max Eckbaum (George Sidney), a good-natured soul who nevertheless has expenses to meet, comes up with a solution: Move Mary into Jack''s loft and have them share the apartment on a shift basis. They would never see each other or know who the other is, since Jack is out all night and sleeps during the day, and Mary is taking a job selling refrigerators by telephone, which keeps her out all day. However, both manage to get a very bad impression of each other after realizing the other is of the opposite sex from articles of clothing lying about. A series of misunderstandings leads to a series of pranks aimed at each other: Jack places a bucket in the shower, and when Mary goes in it falls on her head. Then she places Jack''s suit in the shower, so that it gets wet. In retaliation, he saws Mary''s bed in half so that it would come apart when she sits on it. The situation gets complicated when the couple accidentally meet outside their apartment and, not knowing who the other is, begin to fall in love. Matters get worse when Mary''s boss, lecherous H. Harrington Hubbell (Robert Benchley), tries to invite her out for dinner, while Jack''s would-be "patron", a lonely, libidinous, rich older woman, Elise Peabody Willington Smythe (Laura Hope Crews), tries to maintain her monopoly over Jack. When Jack accompanies Mary to a company picnic, they slip away from the group together and miss the bus back to town, forcing them to take a taxi. When they arrive at Jack''s home, Mary realizes that Jack is her roommate. Trying to allay what he assumes are her suspicions about the arrangement, and unaware Mary is the person with whom he has been sharing the attic loft, Jack strongly denounces his co-tenant to her until the landlord comes and explains all. Elise and Hubbell also arrive at the apartment, where Elise tries to bribe Mary, while a protective cabdriver, Fritzie (Guinn Williams), punches Hubbell, mistaking him for Jack. Realizing his mistake, Fritzie then goes to his cab where Jack is pleading with Mary. Fritzie is about to punch Jack when Mary intervenes, and the cab drives off with Jack and Mary kissing in the backseat. Asked if they will get married, the landlord says, "I arranged it."'
'musical','When kind-hearted delivery boy and self-acclaimed authority on ancient Rome Eddie (Eddie Cantor) is thrown out of his home-town of West Rome, Oklahoma by scheming and corrupt politicians he protests that nothing of the sort would have been allowed to happen in ancient Rome. On his way out of town he imagines that he is back in Imperial Rome, where he is sold in a slave market to good-natured tribune Josephus (David Manners). Eddie soon discovers that Roman society was just as corrupt as in his own town and when he decides to do something about it he becomes involved in court intrigue and a murder plot against the evil Emperor Valerius (Edward Arnold) himself.'
'western','Sentenced for a murder he did not commit, John Brant escapes from prison determined to find the real killer. By chance Brant''s narrow escape from lawmen is witnessed by Joseph Conlon who goes by the name of "Jones". Giving Brant the name of "Smith'' Conlon/Jones gets him into his outlaw gang hiding out in an abandoned mine. Brant attempts to disrupt the outlaw gang''s robberies and comes closer to finding his man.'
'drama','Jim Fowler is Western University''s football hero and is constantly besieged by reporters. Jim''s father Ezra comes to visit him and becomes reacquainted with an old Western football chum, Mr. Chandler, who happens to be the father of Jim''s girlfriend Joan. Jim keeps his roommate, Andy, busy by sending him to collect money on their laundry concessions business, even though Andy is desperately trying to meet his girlfriend Thelma, who has just come for a visit. When the coach tells Chandler and Fowler that Jim is nervous and erratic, Chandler invites Jim to spend the night before the big game at his home. After-dinner conversation reveals that Jim sees football as merely a business, and feels devalued by his popularity because he thinks people are only interested in him because of football, not for who he is. Joan is disillusioned that Jim treats football as a racket, and the fathers are disappointed because they sincerely love the game.'
'drama','Sally Sanders (Irene Dunne) is an American showgirl visiting London in 1898 when she marries Leonard St. John (Phillips Holmes), much to the displeasure of his wealthy and snobbish father, Aubrey St. Johns (Lionel Atwill), who cuts off his son. The couple moves to France. When Leonard is unable to provide a living for his new bride and himself, he eventually goes home to his father asking for help. St. Johns suggests that his son divorce his wife and keep her as a mistress, while marrying within his own class. He agrees to take his son back but only if he writes to Sally ending the marriage. Leonard, seeing no alternative, agrees. However, instead Leonard provides him with a suicide note and shoots himself. When St. Johns discovers that Sally was carrying his grandson, he has her followed by a private detective in hopes of seizing custody of his only heir. When Sally, saving to return to America, is reduced to singing in a French bordello, St. Johns swiftly obtains a court order and seizes the infant while Sally is at work. After being assured of her legal defeat, Sally goes to St. Johns pleading for the return of her son on any terms, and is rudely rebuffed, banned from all contact with the family, and threatened with prison if she persists. The child is to be raised with no contact with or knowledge of his mother. During World War I, Leonard Junior (Douglas Walton), now grown and in uniform as a British serviceman, visits the bordello with a date, hoping to obtain a room, which isn''t available, and meets Sally, with neither aware of the other''s identity. When he becomes drunk and disorderly he is knocked unconscious and Sally takes care of him, learning his identity from his date, whom she sends home with carfare. When Leonard awakens, the two become acquainted and then friendly, and Sally learns that her son was raised to despise women, including his mother, about whom he has heard only lies, including that she is dead. At this moment the enraged father of Leonard''s abandoned date arrives and forces his way into the closed establishment, intending to kill Leonard. In the ensuing struggle Leonard kills the man with Sally''s gun. She sends him away and confesses to the killing, without revealing her motive for helping him. St. John encourages his grandson to go along with the lie, expecting blackmail, but at Sally''s trial, as she pleads self-defense, he secretly recognizes her. The prosecutor then surprises everyone by debunking Sally''s confession and revealing Sally''s identity and motive for protecting Leonard. Mother and son are joyfully reunited as Leonard confesses to being the real shooter and angrily renounces his grandfather. Leonard is sentenced to two years in jail for the shooting, and when Sally visits, the two plan their long-delayed trip to America as mother and son.'
'mystery','A woman''s suitor challenges his two rivals to each spend a night in a room in which several murders occurred years before at 1 a.m. The suitor, Tommy, sleeps there on the first night but disappears at 1 a.m. Then the second man sleeps there on the second night. At 12:30 a.m, he starts playing the piano, but is shot half an hour later. As these events occur, a police investigation leads to several answers to several mysteries. On the fifth night, the third man sleeps in the Blue Room. However, he places a dummy in an armchair and conceals himself behind a coat. At 1 a.m, a revolver pokes round the door and fires at the dummy. The man and several police officers jump out of their hiding places. After a furious gunfight, the villain is apprehended and it turns out to be none other than Tommy, the first suitor, who had ostensibly disappeared.'
'western','Wealthy banker and shipowner William Marlowe and his wife Martha have their hearts set on marrying their daughter Mary to English aristocrat Lord Hurley. However, Mary has other ideas. She has fallen in love with John Carlton, one of her father''s clerks. When Mr. Marlowe finds out, he fires John. John decides to go west to make his fortune, then return for Mary, but she insists on going with him. They elope. The couple settle in California and after a while, have a herd of cattle and a baby boy. While John and hired hand Sunshine are away getting supplies, notorious outlaw Jake Houser and his gang show up and rustle the herd. John rounds up the other ranchers. They catch and hang three of the gang, including Jake''s brother, but Jake gets away. Vowing revenge, Jake and his men attack the Carlton home. Fortunately, help arrives and the rustlers are wiped out. The baby succumbs to illness during the gunfight. Years pass, and the Carltons prosper greatly. Four more children are born, and John runs for governor of the state. They host a party on the night before the election at their mansion. Lolita Martinez, John''s lover, scandalizes everyone by showing up. In private, she insists that Mary free John to marry her. Mary agrees, but John spurns his mistress and begs his wife''s forgiveness; she gives it on condition that he tell her about all his prior lovers. Lolita makes public their affair, but John still wins the election. Later, he becomes a senator, serving for thirty years in Washington, D.C. before deciding to retire and move back to California. This puzzles the couple''s grown children; Mary explains that they want time for themselves, to enjoy secrets they can share with no one else. When their offspring still oppose their decision, the couple sneak away.'
'drama','After attacking and destroying a Chinese outpost, an American officer is dismissed from the US Navy and instead finds himself in charge of a gunboat and tries to prevent a mission being overrun by Communist insurgents.'
'romantic comedy','The story is set in New York City in the 1890s. A bawdy singer, Lady Lou (Mae West), works in the Bowery barroom saloon of her boss and benefactor, Gus Jordan (Noah Beery), who has given her many diamonds. But Lou is a lady with more men friends than anyone might imagine. What she does not know is that Gus trafficks in prostitution and runs a counterfeiting ring to help finance her expensive diamonds. He also sends young women to San Francisco to be pickpockets. Gus works with two other crooked entertainer-assistants, Russian Rita (Rafaela Ottiano) and Rita''s lover, the suave Sergei Stanieff (Gilbert Roland). One of Gus''s rivals and former "friend" of Lou''s, named Dan Flynn (David Landau), spends most of the movie dropping hints to Lou that Gus is up to no good, promising to look after her once Gus is in jail. Lou leads him on, hinting at times that she will return to him, but eventually he loses patience and implies he''ll see her jailed if she doesn''t submit to him. A city mission (a thinly disguised Salvation Army) is located next door to the bar. Its young director, Captain Cummings (Cary Grant), is in reality an undercover Federal agent working to infiltrate and expose the illegal activities in the bar. Gus suspects nothing; he worries only that Cummings will reform his bar and scare away his customers. Lou''s former boyfriend, Chick Clark (Owen Moore), is a vicious criminal who was convicted of robbery and sent to prison for trying to steal diamonds for her. In his absence, she becomes attracted to the handsome young psalm-singing reformer. Warned that Chick thinks she''s betrayed him, she goes to the prison to try to reassure him. All the inmates greet her warmly and familiarly as she walks down the cellblock. Chick becomes angry and threatens to kill her if she double-crosses or two-times him before he gets out. She lies and claims she has been true to him. Gus gives counterfeit money to Rita and Sergei to spend. Chick escapes from jail, and police search for him in the bar. He comes into Lou''s room and starts to strangle her, breaking off only because he still loves her and cannot harm her. Lou calms him down by promising that she will go with him when she finishes her next number. After Sergei gives Lou a diamond pin belonging to Rita, Rita starts a fight with Lou, who accidentally stabs her to death. Lou calmly combs the dead woman''s long hair to hide the fact Rita is dead while the police search the room for Chick Clark. She has her bodyguard Spider (Dewey Robinson), who "would do anything for you, Lou" dispose of Rita''s body. She then tells Spider to bring Chick, who''s hiding in an alley, back to her room upstairs. Then, while she sings "Frankie and Johnny", she silently signals to Dan Flynn that he should go to her room to wait for her, even though she knows Chick is in there with a gun. Chick shoots Dan dead and the gunfire draws a police raid. Cummings shows his badge and reveals himself as "The Hawk", a well-known Federal agent, as he arrests Gus and Sergei. Chick, still lurking in Lou''s room, is about to kill Lou for double-crossing him, when Cummings also apprehends him. Cummings then takes Lou away in an open horse-drawn carriage instead of the paddywagon into which all the other criminals have been loaded. He tells her she doesn''t belong in jail and removes all her other rings and slips a diamond engagement ring onto her marriage finger.'
'drama','Sol Glass (Ferdinand Gottschalk) owns a clothing manufacturing company struggling to survive in the midst of the Great Depression. Like his competitors, Glass employs "customer girls" to entertain out-of-town buyers. However, his clients have become tired of his hard-bitten "gold diggers" and have started taking their business elsewhere. Tommy Nelson (Regis Toomey), one of his salesmen, suggests that they use their stenographers instead. Glass decides to give it a try. When buyer Luther Haines (Hugh Herbert) sees Tommy''s secretary and fiancee, Florence "Flo" Denny (Loretta Young), he wants to take her out. However, Tommy manages to steer him to the curvaceous Birdie (Suzanne Kilborn) instead. Later, with Birdie sick, Tommy reluctantly lets Flo go on a date with another buyer, Daniel "Danny" Drew (Lyle Talbot). They have a nice time together, but she is shocked when she finds out Danny expects sex. A contrite Danny apologizes and tells her that he has fallen in love with her. He has to go on a business trip, but telephones and writes to her regularly. Meanwhile, Flo''s friend, fellow employee and roommate, Maizee (Winnie Lightner), shows her that Tommy is cheating on her with Birdie. She ends their engagement. To keep her self-respect, Flo tells Glass that she will not go out with any more buyers. When he threatens to fire her, she quits. Danny returns and takes Flo to dinner. Then, spotting Haines at another table, he asks her to help convince the last holdout to a merger to sign an important contract, the biggest deal of his life. She is disappointed by his request, but agrees to do it. She goes to dinner with Haines, but cleverly arranges with Maizee to have Haines'' wife (Helen Ware) and daughter show up. Haines has to go along with the pretense that he is conducting business, and signs the contract. When Haines later complains about Flo''s methods, and claims that she and Tommy are living together, Daniel suspects that she is not as innocent as he believed, so he drives her out into the country to the mansion of his friends. Nobody is home, but he coaxes her inside and tries to force himself on her. Flo tries to get away, but finally stops resisting. However, when she asks him if that is all she means to him, Danny stops before anything happens. She leaves, only to run into Tommy, who had followed the couple. He also believes she is selling herself. Danny, overhearing their conversation, realizes that Flo is innocent, and forces Tommy to apologize. Danny begs her to marry him. After she whispers in his ear, he picks her up and carries her back into the mansion.'
'drama','Donald Kilgore is determined to take a shipment of silk from Seattle to New York City by rail to break a monopoly set up by gangster Wallace Myton. Also aboard the train are Professor Axel Nyberg and his daughter Paula. He is paralyzed (except for the use of his eyes) and needs an operation in New York urgently to save his life. Myton has agents planted on the train to make sure the silk does not arrive in time. When Kilgore''s secretary is found murdered in a sealed railroad car, Detective McDuff sees a chance to finally make a name for himself and insists the train remain where it is until he solves the crime. Kilgore, however, has him knocked out, and the train proceeds at a record-setting pace. Then Clark, the conductor, is also killed. Professor Nyberg has seen something and knows who the killer is; he is finally able, by blinking once for "no" and twice for "yes", to let the others know. Before he can reveal the murderer''s identity, the train enters a tunnel. In the darkness, the criminal tries to silence him, but Kilgore spots some movement in the unlit compartment and saves the professor''s life. The killer and his accomplice draw their guns, but "tramp" Rusty Griffith turns out to be a Lloyd''s of London undercover investigator and bluffs them into surrendering their weapons. The train arrives at its destination in time.'
'crime drama','Nora Moran, a young woman with a difficult and tragic past, is sentenced to die for a murder that she did not commit. She could easily reveal the truth and save her own life, if only it would not damage the lives, careers and reputations of those whom she loves.'
'comedy','Pilot "Flash" Norris (Ray Walker) is always getting into trouble with his fists, and his quick temper. His girl, Lila, (Kathryn Crawford) tries to get him to simmer down; and, convinces her father to give him a job in his bank. When the bank won’t invest in his old friend, George Taylor’s airline (George "Gabby" Hayes), Flash quits the bank. But, when money goes missing, from the bank, it’s up to Flash to prove his innocence, recover the money, and catch up with the bank’s Vice President Baker (Jed Prouty) and his girlfriend Mazie (Alice Lake), before their ship takes them to a jurisdiction, without an extradition treaty. Lila doesn’t give up hope, waiting for Flash, and her ship to come in.'
'comedy','Film studio "Ultimate Pictures" plans on producing an animal picture in Africa. The studio gets the help of animal specialist Mrs. Johnson Martini. There''s just one problem: she''s afraid of animals. Martini and the studio soon learn of Wilbur and Alexander, a couple of down on their luck vaudevillians with a trained lion act. The duo agree to join Martini on an expedition to Africa. While there, the trio finds themselves captured by a tribe of violent Amazons.'
'drama','After a job in Monte Carlo, an English jewel theft ring returns to Paris. Suave cat burglar Oliver Lane (Herbert Marshall), fashioned the "Solitaire Man" in the newspapers after seven years of eluding Scotland Yard, proposes marriage to his lovely accomplice Helen (Elizabeth Allan) and informs her he has bought a country house in Devonshire to which they can all retire. However unstable Robert Bascom (Ralph Forbes), drug-addicted after his experiences in the Great War, also loves Helen and wants to continue on his own. He presents Oliver with the "Brewster necklace" that he burgled from the British Embassy while he dined there with his former colonel. Realizing Bascom would be the only suspect and his arrest would lead back to all of them, Oliver returns the Brewster necklace to the safe just as an inspector from Scotland Yard tracking the Solitaire Man arrives at the embassy. Before Oliver can make his escape, a second man sneaks in and steals the necklace but is interrupted by the inspector, who recognizes the thief but is shot and killed by him. Oliver struggles in the dark with the killer during his getaway and grabs the necklace and part of the killer''s watch chain. With Bascom, Helen and the elderly Mrs. Vail (May Robson), the fourth member of the ring who poses as an impoverished British aristocrat in order to sell the stolen jewels to gullible American tourists, Oliver hastily decides to fly to England. They are joined on the airplane by a garrulous, wealthy American socialite, Mrs. Hopkins (Mary Boland), and a last moment arrival in the form of an unknown Englishman (Lionel Atwill). As the airplane is taking off, Mrs. Hopkins demands that the pilot stop to pick up her late-arriving husband Elmer. Although Oliver''s group is willing to oblige her, the other man insists that they continue, and the pilots refuse because of a heavy fog. The stranger identifies himself as Inspector Wallace of Scotland Yard and attempts to arrest Oliver for being the Solitaire Man. When he demands at gunpoint to search Oliver''s luggage for the Brewster necklace, the group disarms Wallace, revealing their complicity, and Oliver tells Bascom to lock Wallace in his own handcuffs. The passengers become aware that another plane is following them, which Wallace claims is a French Army plane he arranged as an escort in case they tried to land in France. Convinced that Wallace is what he claims to be, Oliver offers to give himself up and turn over the necklace in exchange for the freedom of the others. When Wallace is distracted by the offer, Oliver turns off the plane''s cabin lights to throw off the pursuing French plane in the fog. Noticing that Wallace is not really handcuffed, Oliver asks him about how he knew Oliver would be on the flight and accuses Bascom of tipping off the police. Bascom admits that he intended to betray Oliver in his anger over Helen but denies carrying out the scheme. Oliver, however, realizes that Bascom and Wallace, who now claims to be a fast-thinking burglar himself, were in league to turn in Oliver to collect a £10,000 reward for the Solitaire Man. He searches Wallace and finds the letter Bascom wrote telling the police about Oliver''s travel plans. Overwhelmed by guilt, Bascom jumps from the plane to his death. From the Scotland yard-issue pistol Wallace was carrying, Oliver deduces that not only is Wallace a crook, but he covers up his own crimes by being a police informant. Helen notices that Wallace''s pocket watch has a broken chain, and Oliver accuses Wallace of being the murderer of the dead inspector. Oliver again turns out the cabin lights and appears to have also jumped from the plane with the necklace, but when the lights are turned back on, he emerges from the cockpit. He agrees to give Wallace the Brewster necklace and confess falsely to the murder, returning the gun unloaded as part of the charade, if Wallace tells Scotland Yard that the others had no part in any of the crimes. The plane lands in Croydon and is boarded unexpectedly by police constables to detain the passengers for Scotland Yard. The "French Army escort" lands immediately behind them and turns out to be only a plane hired by Mrs. Hopkins'' husband Elmer to bring him to England after he missed the flight. When Wallace identifies himself as "Inspector Wallace" to the officers and tries to leave to "file his report," Oliver insists that it is he who is the inspector and Wallace the Solitaire Man to prevent it. The passengers are interrogated by Inspector Harris, who knows Wallace (acidly reminding the informant that he is not a detective) and is the former partner of the murdered inspector. Oliver tricks Wallace into exposing himself as the jewel thief and the murderer. Wallace tries to escape out a window using the gun but is shot by Harris, who does not realize the gun is empty. Oliver then reveals that when he went to the cockpit, he used the plane''s radio to summon Scotland Yard to detain the arrivals. Harris accepts Mrs. Hopkins'' corroboration of Oliver''s explanation that he is only a legitimate jewelry dealer who offered to appraise the necklace when Wallace had tried to sell it to her on the plane. Oliver and Helen head off to start new lives as a quiet, happily married Devonshire couple.'
'adventure','The story picks up about a month after the dramatic finale of the previous film and follows the further adventures of filmmaker Carl Denham, now implicated in numerous lawsuits following the destruction brought by Kong. Carl Denham leaves New York City with the captain of the Venture, Captain Englehorn, who is certain it is just a matter of time before he is similarly served. Their efforts to make money shipping cargo around the Orient are less than successful. In the Dutch port of Dakang, Carl Denham is amused to see there is a "show" being presented, so he and Captain Englehorn attend. It turns out to be a series of performing monkeys, capped by a song ("Runaway Blues") sung by a young woman named Hilda Petersen. That night, Hilda''s father, who runs the show, stays up drinking with a Norwegian skipper named Nils Helstrom, who had lost his ship under questionable circumstances. The two men fight and Hilda''s father is killed, their tent burns down and Hilda releases all the monkeys. Carl Denham and Englehorn run into Helstrom, who was the man that sold Carl Denham the map to Kong''s Island, and he convinces the two that there was a treasure on the island. Carl Denham and Captain Englehorn agree to go back and try to retrieve it. Later, Denham meets Hilda while she is trying to recapture her monkeys and tries to cheer her up. Despite her pleas, Carl Denham refuses to take her with him when he leaves Dakang. Shortly after they put out to sea, however, Hilda is found stowing away on board. Helstrom talks Hilda into silence and incites a mutiny on board the Venture, but the sailors want no more captains and throw him overboard alongside Denham, Englehorn, Hilda and the cook, Charlie. The five land on Kong''s Island where they discover the natives blame Carl Denham for the destruction of their village and they are forced to move to a different part of the island. There, Carl Denham and Hilda Petersen meet and befriend an albino gorilla just over twice the height of a man. Carl Denham assumes the ape to be Kong''s son and names him "Little Kong". Meanwhile, Captain Englehorn, Charlie and Helstrom are attacked by a Styracosaurus which chases them into a cave. Denham and Hilda are attacked by a giant cave bear but Little Kong fights and fends it off by swinging a tree branch. Carl Denham bandages Little Kong''s injured finger in return. Despite the fact that Helstrom made up his story out of desperation, Carl Denham finds an authentic treasure. Shortly afterwards, Little Kong, Carl Denham and Hilda Petersen are attacked by a dragon-like Nothosaurus which Little Kong kills, while Helstrom tries to escape in the lifeboat but is killed by an Elasmosaurus. Hilda Petersen, Captain Englehorn and Charlie run to the lifeboat, but an earthquake strikes the island and it begins to sink into the ocean. Little Kong has his foot stuck on the top of a mountain of the island, and he sacrifices his life by saving Carl Denham by holding him above the water until he can be rescued. The film ends with Carl Denham and Hilda Petersen throwing their lot in together, as the treasure will make all four of them (including Captain Englehorn and Charlie) wealthy.'
'comedy','At a meeting of the Sons of the Desert, a fraternal lodge of which both Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy are members, it has been decided that the organization will be holding its annual convention in Chicago in a week and all members have to take an oath to attend. Stan is reluctant to take the oath, but Oliver goads him into it. Later, on the way home, Stan explains to Oliver his reluctance to take the oath; he is worried that his wife Betty will not let him go to the convention. Oliver tries to reassure Stan his wife has no choice but to let him go because he took a sacred oath. When they get home and Stan accidentally brings up the subject of the convention, however, it turns out Oliver''s wife Lottie will not let him go as they had already arranged a mountain trip together (which Oliver had forgotten about). Oliver tries to cover his embarrassment by remarking to Stan that his wife is "only clowning", only for her to chuck a bowl at his head, followed by another one when he attempts to establish his authority as the boss of the house. Unwilling to go back on the oath that he swore, but also unwilling to provoke further wrath from his wife, Oliver feigns illness to get out of the trip with his wife. Stan arranges for a doctor (actually a veterinarian) to prescribe an ocean voyage to Honolulu, with their wives staying home (Oliver is well aware how much ocean voyages disagree with his wife). Stan and Ollie go to the convention, with their wives none the wiser. Of course, they have a close call while drinking with a fellow conventioneer when as a practical joke their friend "Charley" calls his sister in Los Angeles... who turns out to be Mrs. Hardy! However, nothing comes of this. Having tempted fate by deceiving their wives, however, one can hardly be surprised when fate is indeed tempted. While Stan and Ollie are en route home from Chicago, their supposed ship arriving from Honolulu sinks in a typhoon and the wives head to the shipping company''s offices to find out any news about the survivors. At the same time, Stan and Ollie, blissfully unaware as of yet of the shipwreck, return home as though from Honolulu (complete with leis, pineapples and a rousing ukulele song which, incidentally, had been part of the floor show entertainment at the Chicago convention!) and are confused by the empty houses. While Stan reads the paper, Ollie suddenly catches sight the headline of their supposed ship''s demise and immediately grasps its grisly implications. He reads it out to Stan, who at first humorously remarks on what a good thing it was they didn''t go to Honolulu; then, when it finally sinks in, he goes into a tizzy. Panic-stricken, knowing their wives will know right away they never went to Honolulu and likely do them grievous bodily harm, they prepare to go to a hotel to spend the night, only to catch sight of their wives returning back home. They end up take refuge hastily in the attic and, as they can''t escape, decide to camp out there. Meanwhile, the wives go to the cinema to calm their rattled nerves...and what should they see but a newsreel of the convention in which their husbands act like complete hams for the cameras! Furious at being deceived, they blame one another''s wayward spouses, while Betty, knowing Stan lied for the first time ever to her, is still confident he will atone and confess, more than Oliver will do. That outrages Lottie to the point of proposing a challenge to see whose husband is the truthful one. As for the husbands, their camping in the attic starts out smoothly enough but is interrupted loudly enough as to attract the attention of the wives (prompting Betty to investigate with her shotgun) and they manage to flee out of sight, escaping to the rooftop. When they cannot get back in, Oliver sees this as their opportunity to follow their original plan of going to a hotel to pass the night. Stan, however, wants to go back home and confess to his wife but Oliver threatens, "If you go downstairs and spill the beans, I''ll tell Betty that I caught you smoking a cigarette!" They are about to make their way to a hotel to spend the night, but are stopped by a policeman who manages to get their home addresses from them thanks to Stan. The wives notice them coming, but while Lottie is all for shooting them the moment they walk through the door, Betty reminds her of their little argument that needs to be settled. Upon walking into the house, they tell the wives about the shipwreck. Then, when asked about how the pair of them had managed to get home a day before the rescue ship carrying the survivors was due, their story begins to unravel; they say they jumped ship and "ship-hiked" their way home. Then Lottie looks Oliver in the eye and asks him if his story is the truth. He insists it is; "It''s too farfetched not to be the truth!" Then Betty asks Stan if Oliver''s story is true. After a long silence Stan eventually breaks down and tearfully confesses them going to the convention, despite Oliver''s previously mentioned threat. Betty picks up her shotgun while Stan continues whimpering and ominously says to her husband "Come along, Stanley.", highly implying that she is going to shoot him once they get home. After they leave, Oliver is left to face his wife''s wrath at being made a fool of twice by him, and after failed attempts to charm her with babyish mannerisms, audaciously suggests going on the mountain trip they arranged in the first place - the last straw. Watched by her bemused husband, she empties the kitchen cupboards, piling up crockery. Meanwhile, on the Laurel''s side of the house, Stan is seen wrapped in a dressing gown on the sofa, sipping wine and eating chocolates, being pampered by Betty, who relays the age old moral to him, "Honesty is the best policy." Stan agrees happily, as the sounds of hurled pieces of crockery start coming from the Hardy side. Lottie, in a livid frenzy, is throwing pots, pans and dishes at Ollie. After the maelstrom Stan arrives from next-door to compare notes, sees Hardy sitting in the wreckage and tells Ollie that his wife said that "honesty is the best politics!" Stan puffs on a once-forbidden cigarette, and then goes out the door singing "Honolulu Baby". Ollie vengefully hurls a pot at his head, upending him.'
'mystery','A man comes out of the office of "Garfield Investment Company". He meets the janitor in the stairs and asks him for a match, and then what time it is. "It''s nine" the Italian-American janitor Luigi Bacciagalupi (Luis Alberni) answers and wants to know from which apartment he came out. The man leaves without answering. Short after the janitor finds a dead man in the office of "Garfield Investment Company". Newspaperman Burton (Theodore Newton) from the Chronicle is there to talk with the inspector. Before he can see him he talks with the watching police officer and after a while he realizes that the Garfield Investment Company just that morning went bankrupt. "Another broker went down the flush". The janitor recognizes on the police-records the man that came out from the office, Mr. Breed. During the trial he sticks to what he has seen and what he has heard, though two different doctors testify that Mr. Breed is deaf and mute since birth. Young chronicle newspaperman Jerry Crane, in love with his good looking girl-colleague, has a feeling that Breed is a strange guy and tries to convince her not to go for interview to his house. Meantime a young broker tells him he has a hint, if he gets enough money for it. Breed comes to see the young broker before at half past eight the Burton comes to his house. A second time Mr. Breed asks for the time after seeing his victim. The puzzling case has the parallel love story of the two newspaper-people of the Chronicle. While Burton, that wants to marry Crane, is skeptical about Breed, Crane is fascinated and dedicates him a series of articles. When Inspector Riley thinks he saw Breed hearing the playing of the piano when they are in his house, the next morning a third dead man is on the list.'
'drama','Four years after her vaudevillian husband''s death, Kitty Lorraine, a frustrated former performer, marries comic Ralph Martin and returns to the stage, leaving behind her four-year-old daughter Shirley with her former in-laws. Fed up after ten years of Ralph''s drinking, Kitty divorces him and sends for her now 14-year-old daughter. Two years of training allows Shirley to land a featured role in a touring music revue. Upon Shirley''s return to New York City, Kitty blackmails the revue''s manager into breaking Shirley''s contract so she can take the starring role in a Broadway revue. During tryouts in Boston, Shirley returns to her family home and meets Warren Foster, an artist now living there. She takes advantage of her mother''s sudden illness to continue seeing Warren, eventually staying the night with him. When Kitty intercepts a love letter from Warren to Shirley, she blackmails Warren''s parents for $10,000. Warren angrily denounces Shirley. Shirley next takes up with Al Dexter, a candidate for mayor. When his political operatives get wind of the relationship they pay Kitty $25,000 to sail with Shirley to Europe. On-board ship, Shirley meets Lord Reggie Aylesworth. Worried that the class-conscious Reggie will abandon her, Shirley denies that Kitty is her mother, claiming she is merely a stage mother. Reggie proposes and Shirley accepts, blithely informing Kitty both of the lie and that she will not be welcomed in her new home. A contrite Kitty hands over another intercepted love letter from Warren and gives Shirley her blessing for a happy life.[1]'
'drama','Temple Drake, a frivolous young woman from a prominent Mississippi family, is raped and forced into prostitution by Trigger, a backwoods bootlegger, after Trigger shoots and kills a boy who tries to protect her. Another backwoodsman is charged with the murder. When Temple tries to leave Trigger, he becomes angry and is apparently about to assault her, so she grabs his pistol and shoots him, then flees back home to her family. An idealistic lawyer eventually persuades Temple to tell the truth about the first murder on the witness stand and save the defendant''s life, even though her testimony will disgrace herself. According to Pre-Code scholar Thomas Doherty, the film implies that the deeds done to her are in recompense for her immorality in falling into a relationship with the gangster, instead of fleeing him.[2] The relatively upbeat ending of the film is in marked contrast to the ending of Faulkner''s novel Sanctuary, in which Temple perjures herself in court, resulting in the lynching of an innocent man.'
'horror','Roma Courtenay (Carole Lombard) is approached by phony psychic Paul Bavian (Alan Dinehart) who claims to have a message from Courtenay''s recently deceased brother. After attending a staged seance, Roma suddenly becomes possessed by the malevolent spirit of the executed murderess Ruth Rogen (Vivienne Osborne), who has unfinished business, including killing Bavian, her one-time lover. Fearing that Roma is actually under the charlatan''s control, her fiancé (Randolph Scott) tries to rescue her. H.B. Warner plays a scientist who is a friend of the Courtenay family. At the film''s beginning he visits the warden of the penitentiary where Rogen is incarcerated. He tells the warden that violent crime always increases following the execution of a murderer, and he believes this is because some kind of malevolent spiritual influence is released after the killer dies. The warden agrees to give him Rogen''s body after the execution so that he can attempt to contain the evil force. Roma becomes possessed by Ruth Rogen''s spirit when she walks into the scientist''s laboratory while he is experimenting with her body. Just as she enters the room the corpse receives a jolt of electricity and the eyes flick open and make contact with Roma.'
'drama','Daniel Pardway builds his Chicago department store, the Bazaar, from nothing into a major success, making him wealthy. After the birth of his fourth child, he is left widowed. He raises his three sons and one daughter the best he can, denying them nothing, dreaming of one day leaving his store in their hands. When they are all adults, he turns to each of his sons in turn (he dismisses his daughter because she is a girl), but all of them prove unwilling or unable to manage the store.'
'comedy','Difficulties overtake a well-to-do family in New York when they lose all their money in the Great Crash of 1929.'
'animated','Practical Pig, Fiddler Pig and Fifer Pig are three brothers who build their own houses with bricks, sticks and straw respectively. All three of them play a different kind of musical instrument – Fifer Pig "toots his flute, doesn''t give a hoot and plays around all day," Fiddler Pig "with a hey diddle diddle, plays on his fiddle and dances all kinds of jigs" and Practical Pig is initially seen as working without rest. Fifer and Fiddler build their straw and stick houses with much ease and have fun all day. Practical, on the other hand, "has no chance to sing and dance for work and play don''t mix," focusing on building his strong brick house, but his two brothers poke fun at him. An angry Practical warns them "You can play and laugh and fiddle. Don''t think you can make me sore. I''ll be safe and you''ll be sorry when the Wolf comes through your door!" Fifer and Fiddler ignore him and continue to play, singing the now famous song "Who''s Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?". As they are singing, the Big Bad Wolf really comes by, at which point Fifer and Fiddler reveal they are in fact very afraid of the wolf. Fifer and Fiddler each retreat to their respective houses; the Wolf first blows Fifer''s house down (except for the roof) with little resistance. Fifer manages to escape and hides at Fiddler''s house. The wolf pretends to give up and go home, but returns disguised as an innocent sheep. The pigs see through the disguise ("Not by the hair of our chinny-chin-chin! You can''t fool us with that old sheep skin!"), whereupon the Wolf blows Fiddler''s house down (except for the door). The two pigs manage to escape and hide at Practical''s house, who willingly gives his brothers refuge; in Practical''s house, it is revealed that his musical instrument is the piano. The Wolf arrives disguised as a Jewish peddler/Fuller Brush man to trick the pigs into letting him in, but fails. The Wolf then tries to blow down the strong brick house (losing his clothing in the process), but is unable, all while a confident Practical plays melodramatic piano music. Finally, he attempts to enter the house through the chimney, but smart Practical Pig takes off the lid of a boiling pot filled with water (to which he adds turpentine) under the chimney, and the Wolf falls right into it. Shrieking in pain, the Wolf runs away frantically, while the pigs sing "Who''s Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?" again. Practical then plays a trick by knocking on his piano, causing his brothers to think the Wolf has returned and hide under Practical''s bed.'
'comedy','Braggart Buck Crosby rescues movie star Marjorie Lane when her horse bolts during location shooting. She invites him to dinner, where he regales the film crew with tall tales of his exploits. When someone notices his resemblance to a noted car racer, he takes credit for that, too. After he leaves, he is attracted to a commotion in an isolated cabin. Shots ring out, and he finds two men dead inside. They turn out to be members of the Blake gang, which just pulled off a $100,000 gold robbery. Buck finds a locket and keeps it, then claims the reward for shooting the two men. This latest exploit convinces director Ed Jackson to invite Buck to go to Hollywood and star opposite Marjorie in her next picture. Much to Buck''s dismay, Jackson has believed his stories about being an expert driver and pilot. Buck is expected to drive a high-powered car around an oval track and fly a biplane. After a hair-raising few minutes, he crashes the car. He then tries to learn how to fly overnight. However, he is spotted at an airplane simulator/ride by Roy Lang, assistant to studio producer Sam Levine. Roy informs Sam that Buck is a fake. They rush out to the airport, but not in time. Buck takes off, flies around, then crashes. When they pull him out of the wreckage unscathed, Sam fires him on the spot. Buck confesses and apologizes to Marjorie, then hops on a freight train. When he gets off, two other riders take him at gunpoint back to the cabin where he found the bodies. They turn out to be Al Blake and Lou Norton, the other members of the Blake gang. Al wants the locket. It turns out the directions to where the gold is stashed are hidden in it. Buck tells them he gave it to Marjorie. They tie him up and go to the train station. As luck would have it, Marjorie and her crew have returned to resume filming. The robbers kidnap Marjorie. Meanwhile, Buck frees himself and spots them as they drive past. He steals an airplane, gives chase and shoots the two crooks from the air (just like he claimed he shot Japanese officers in China). Afterward, he tells Marjorie he will never lie again. He soon starts to tell her another tall tale, but then sheepishly remembers his promise.'
'comedy','Tillie Winterbottom (Alison Skipworth) has just lost her waterfront saloon in Shanghai, China in a dice game, and her ex-husband Gus (W.C. Fields) is on trial for murder in Lone Gulch, Alaska, when they each receive word that Tillie''s brother has died. Gus escapes and the two reunite in Seattle, then head for Danville to investigate the dead man''s estate and the possibility of an inheritance. Local Danville attorney Phineas Pratt (Clarence Wilson) claims the man died in debt, but he actually has swindled his daughter Mary Sheridan (Julie Bishop, billed under her real name, Jacqueline Wells) out of her rightful inheritance, including the family home, forcing her to move with her husband Tom Sheridan (Phillip Trent) and their infant son, King (Baby LeRoy) to a dilapidated ferry called the Fairy Queen—supposedly the one item left of the estate. When Tillie and Gus arrive in Danville, they are mistaken for missionaries newly returned from Africa by their relatives. Tillie plans to sell the boat and split the profits, but they become suspicious when Pratt expresses an inordinate interest in acquiring the seemingly unseaworthy boat, and they decide to help Mary and Tom refurbish it. Pratt, who has just purchased his own boat, the Keystone, tries to eliminate the competition by convincing the state inspection board to deny the Sheridans a ferry franchise. It is decided that the outcome of a Fourth of July boat race will determine who is awarded the franchise. Comic mayhem ensues when Gus does everything in his power to sabotage their rival, ultimately coming out ahead in the end. Tom tells Gus, "That ferryboat race was the world''s biggest gamble," to which Gus replies, "Well, don''t forget, Lady Godiva put everything she had on a horse!"'
'western','A feud between the Colby and the Hayden families, starts in the hills of Kentucky and continues in the West after the American Civil War. Also involved is the conflict between vigilantism and the law in a frontier environment, and lovers from the two feuding families. At one point, one of the villains shoots the head off Shirley Temple''s character''s doll.'
'romance, drama','During World War I, Diana "Ann" Boyce-Smith (Joan Crawford) is an English girl living on her father''s estate in Kent. The estate is bought by a wealthy American, Richard Bogard (Gary Cooper), who seeks to move into his new property. Right as Bogard arrives, Ann and the house''s servants find out that her father has been killed in action, but Ann projects calm and brave graciousness and moves to the guest cottage without complaint. Bogard finds her strength attractive and quickly falls in love with her. Meanwhile, her brother Lt. Ronnie Boyce-Smith (Franchot Tone) and Lt. Claude Hope (Robert Young) are both British Naval officers going off to fight in the war. Ann believes she is love with Claude, and consents to marry him. However, she soon realizes she is in true love when meeting Bogard. Though Bogard originally proclaimed his neutrality and indifference to the war, he soon joins as a fighter pilot. Ann goes to London, and though Claude is unaware of Diana''s true feelings for Bogard, Ann admits her feelings for Bogard to Ronnie. Ronnie advises her to tell Claude the truth, but Ann is intent on keeping her marriage pledge. Then Ronnie shows an announcement in the paper informing her that Bogard was reported dead during a training accident. However, there had been a mistake, and Bogard comes back unharmed. Though she is happy to see him, she disappears soon after he arrives. Bogard comes across a drunken Claude in a bar and takes him home—a home he shares with Ann. Bogard becomes jealous, and a rivalry for Ann develops between Bogard and Claude. Claude agrees to accompany Bogard on an air fight, and Bogard is surprised by Claude''s expert shooting. Bogard takes a turn at Claude''s shift on a boat, and Claude is blinded when hand-launching a torpedo against a German battleship. Ann learns of Claude''s blindness and says a final goodbye to Bogard, but he realizes Diana and Bogard''s true feelings for one another. Diana feels it is her duty to care for Claude, and when an aerial suicide mission comes up, all three men participate, with the outcome being that both Claude and Ronnie die in action, although their boat successfully makes a torpedo run. Their sacrifice allows Bogard to survive, and although Diana is sad to lose both Ronnie and Claude, she and Bogard are reunited.'
'crime comedy','A man unveils a valuable painting he picked up for $50,000 and is killed. A card with a large black ace (of spades) is put on his chest. Another “Black Ace” victim. The killer sends his victims a Black Ace card, warning them they are to die and then kills them, his way of taunting the police. Neil Broderick, an author, intends writing a book about him and is on his way to see Thornton Drake to get more information about him. Austin Winters is his secretary and Neil met his daughter Martha on the train, on the way to Chicago. Drake has just received a Black Ace, with the words: “At seven tomorrow night”, the time he is to be killed. Two plainclothes cops arrive from police headquarters, having had a call, Clancy and Dugan (both incompetents). Martha suggests that they leave for Drake’s Louisiana plantation tomorrow morning and be far away from there at seven tomorrow night. Drake agrees and suggests they all go. On the flight, the lights go off for some seconds and when they come on again, Austin Winters is dead without a mark on him. At the plantation, Clancy ineptly questions the suspects till Neil points out that they are now in another state, so out of their jurisdiction. Neil goes to another room and makes a phone call, then signals to someone outside. After he finishes his call, the line is cut. Meanwhile one of the pilots has taken off in the plane, leaving the other pilot, Henderson, behind who claims he does not know anything though he was out of the cockpit when Winters was killed. The coroner finds a letter on the dead man which is to be read if Winters dies. It will reveal the identity of the Black Ace. Clancy starts reading it aloud and unsurprisingly the lights go off and the letter has vanished when the lights are turned on again. People locked in their rooms that night and Neil has a hidden car outside signal to him. Later that night, the coroner turns up, the real one. Neil goes to Martha’s room and asks her what she did with the letter, guessing that she had taken it because was afraid her father might implicate himself with the Black Ace. The letter is gone from where she hid it and all there is, is two sheets of plain paper and a Black Ace card. Clancy and Dugan appear and blame Neil. Clancy and Neil at gunpoint go to Drake’s room and while Clancy is hurling accusations, there is a groan from next door and they find a dead man there (Henderson). A search of Neil reveals he has a skeleton key so might have been able to enter the dead man’s room. Downstairs, Dugan has been talking to Martha with his back to her, turns and sees she has gone (a mysterious hand reached out for her only moments before). The housekeeper (Mrs Quincy) is seen leading the fake coroner (Jerry Simons) who is carrying Martha. Drake left with Neil threatens him with a gun, demanding Winters’ confession but Neil has signalled Simons (of the Bureau of Criminal Investigations) who disarms Drake who has Winters’ confession implicating him. However, the gardener (Pompey) comes into the room with a gun in his hand and now the villains have the upper hand till there is a knock at just the right moment. Two fights ensue. In trying to kill Simons, Pompey kills Drake with the hidden spike in the walking stick. Pompey is subdued and the two cops arrive to take the credit.'
'musical comedy','A backstage musical about a Broadway star, Eddie Bronson, who is stranded with his plane in Ohio where he discovers a small-time variety act, Dixon and Day and their assistant Ruth who is also Ben Day''s fiancée. When he returns to New York following a try-out of a new show, Bronson arranges for the irascible producer, Max Merlin, to put them in the show and the story develops around the mutual interest which grows between Eddie and Ruth. At a party Bronson sings ''The Day You Came Along'' and his own fiancée, Lucille, is jealous of his attentions to Ruth. Rehearsals of the show prove to be disappointing but Eddie encourages Ruth and they sing ''Thanks''. Ben decides to give up Ruth so that she can marry Eddie but Lucille will not release Eddie. Ben, with Johnny''s help, masquerades as a tobacco millionaire, Charles W. Beaumont Jr., and pretends to be infatuated with Lucille who, in her enthusiasm to obtain a millionaire husband, abandons Eddie and tells him she is breaking the engagement which, of course, has the desired effect of leaving him free to marry Ruth. The opening night is a huge success; the show includes a spectacular production number, ''Black Moonlight'', sung by one of the leading ladies standing on a bridge while dancers perform on a huge draped drum. Other featured numbers are Dixon and Day''s ''The Kelly''s and the Cohen''s'', ''Cradle Me with a ''Hocha'' Lullaby'', ''Boo-boo-boo'' and the finale ''Buckin'' the Wind''. The song ''I Guess It Had To Be That Way'' was omitted from the released print of the film. Sam Coslow and Arthur Johnston also wrote ''Two Aristocrats'' for this film but it was not used. Kitty Kelly is seen singing ''Black Moonlight'' but the dubbed voice was actually that of Barbara Van Brunt. Although Crosby did not sing it in the film, and it may not have been the most tuneful of songs, his commercial recording is a prime example of his singing and style at that period.[1]'
'drama','Prof. Auguste A. Topaze (John Barrymore), an honest, naive chemist and schoolteacher at the Stegg Academy in Paris, loses his job when he refuses to accede to a demand by the Baroness de La Tour-La Tour to alter the grades of her bratty son, Charlemagne. On the same day, Friday the 13th, Topaze calls on the Baron de La Tour-La Tour''s mistress, Coco (Myrna Loy), who is looking for a tutor for her sister''s son, Alphonse, and had gotten Topaze''s name from La Tour. Upon meeting and listening to the sincere remarks of Topaze, the baron, head of the La Tour Chemical Works, decides to employ him as a scientific front for his phony curative water. After an encounter at a cafe, where the Baron narrowly avoids a scene with his wife by calling Coco "Madame Topaze", Coco reveals the true nature of her relation to the Baron to the naive Professor. When they arrive late back to Coco''s apartment, the Baron is jealous, but soon realizes Topaze is entirely innocent. Unaware that the water, "Sparkling Topaze," which is being sold all over Paris, does not contain the medicinal formula he invented for it, Topaze is shocked when Dr. Bomb (who had turned down the "honor" of having the fradulent water named for him) shows up, demanding 100,000 francs from the Baron or he will expose the fradulent product. But the Baron blackmails him in return with information about his previous identity, and Bomb is dragged out. After confirming for himself, in the lab and in a local restaurant, that "Sparkling Topaze" is in fact phony, a dazed Topaze returns to Coco''s apartment the next morning, where Coco fusses over him. At first, he is ready to be arrested, but the men who are shown in are instead a delegation from the Bureau of Awards and Merits, who award him the Academic Palms. All are friends and business associates of the Baron, and the scales begin to fall from Professor Topaze''s eyes. His naivete thoroughly destroyed, declaring "Topaze lies dead in an alley", Topaze decides to fight back by becoming more corrupt than his mentors. He remakes his image and, with Bomb as his assistant, he opens his own office, where he makes dignitaries wait to see him. One is Dr. Stegg, who now wants Topaze to preside at the graduation at the school. Topaze succeeds in blackmailing the Baron into a partnership in his company with a complete account of his relationship with Coco, which he threatens to show to the Baroness, whose name the shares in the company are in. At the Stegg Academy graduation, Topaze, who has also garnered the romantic attention of Coco, is to distribute the prize, which he is told is to go to his former nemesis, Charlemagne de La Tour-La Tour. He gives a little speech about his experiences in the great world, that honesty isn''t always rewarded and that villainy often receives more applause than virtue. Declaring that he will not reward wrongdoers, he shows up Charlemagne''s ignorance relative to all his classmates, then awards the prize to them instead. He is last seen escorting Coco into the cinema.'
'drama','On March 23, 1933, middle-aged cigar store owner Joe Gimlet (Lee Tracy) runs into his childhood friend, banker Ted Wright (Otto Kruger). While having dinner with Joe and his wife Mary, Ted asks the couple to invest $4,000 in his company. Joe is excited by the idea, but Mary refuses to part with their savings. Angered by her reluctance, Joe gets drunk and declares to Mary that he should have married the wealthy Elvina. Drunkenly leaving their apartment, he is hit by a car and is brought to a hospital for surgery. Joe wakes to discover that he is a young man again. After scaring his mother (Clara Blandick) with talk of the future, and after having to face the doctor who asks him if he wants to go crazy like his father, he decides to keep his past life to himself. Going to his job as a soda jerk, he meets Elvina (Peggy Shannon). They soon become engaged. The engagement announcement crushes Joe''s girlfriend, Mary, and his mother, who reminds him that money does not buy happiness. After the wedding, Joe becomes rich due to his knowledge of the future. Meanwhile, Mary and Ted, Joe’s old friend, get married. Remembering the post war problems, Joe pledges one million dollars to help returning vets. His wife is enraged, but President Woodrow Wilson hails Joe as a hero and nominates him as the head of the War Industry. Elvina openly mocks him, but they refuse to divorce to avoid scandal. Years pass and in 1929 Joe goes into the cigar store and sees Ted working there. At dinner with Ted and Mary, Joe offers Ted the chance to invest $4,000 in a venture. Mary approves the idea, because she believes in Joe. The venture does not go forward because Joe is ruined by the stock market crash, due to Elvina having invested their common savings in the stock market through a broker instead of putting it in a trust fund as Joe had told her to do. Joe divorces Elvina, telling her that this time they are really washed up. His bank employees plunder the bank and Joe is to be held responsible. It is now March 6, 1933, the date of the car accident. Joe must now live his life with no knowledge of the future. He flees, and finding Mary, begs her to run away with him. Mary tells him she cannot leave her husband. Joe is pursued by a horde of police officers and brought into custody. At that moment, he wakes up in the hospital room with his life returned as it was. He tells Mary he wouldn’t change a thing about their life together.'
'comedy western','A complete failure as a ranch cowhand and then a chuckwagon driver, Tonto Daley''s embarrassment is total after accidentally causing a wagon to tip over and his boss''s daughter Nina Weston to fall into a creek. Tonto hits the trail with his tail between his legs, taking a job from Porky and Tom to become a hog farmer. He is miserable and lonely, and things get worse when former foreman Munther tries to railroad Tonto in the rustling of some cattle. He finds out Porky and Tom are in on it, and Nina becomes Tonto''s ally in the fight to make things right.'
'biography','In pre-Revolutionary France, Voltaire champions the oppressed commoners and tries to warn King Louis XV (Reginald Owen) about the growing unrest among his subjects. The writer has a powerful ally in Madame Pompadour (Doris Kenyon), Louis'' mistress, but the Count de Sarnac (Alan Mowbray) opposes him for his own ends. When Voltaire pleads for the life of Calas, unjustly accused of treason, Louis is inclined to pardon the man, but Sarnac persuades him that it would be a sign of weakness, and Calas is swiftly executed. As a reward, Sarnac gains the wealthy man''s estates. Voltaire invites Calas'' daughter and rightful heiress, Nanette (Margaret Lindsay), to shelter in his home. Meanwhile, Sarnac tries to persuade the King that Voltaire is a traitor, citing his well-known friendship with Frederick the Great and claiming that it is he who is betraying French secrets to the Prussian ruler. Louis is not entirely convinced, but does banish Voltaire from his royal court at Versailles. As a result, Madame Pompadour becomes reluctant to aid Voltaire further, until he arranges it so that she can overhear from Sarnac''s own lips his ambition to replace her as Louis'' paramount adviser. Then, she persuades the King to allow Voltaire to stage a new play at Versailles. The production is a thinly disguised portrayal of Calas'' execution and the aftermath transposed to an exotic setting. Voltaire hopes to open the King''s eyes to his danger. Voltaire recruits Nanette to portray the part of herself. The King is sympathetic to the theatrical Nanette''s plight, not recognizing himself as her despised oppressor until Sarnac points it out. Then Louis orders the play stopped before the explanatory final scene and orders that Voltaire be sent to the Bastille. However, hearing of a rich present given to Sarnac by Frederick, Voltaire unmasks the count as the real traitor. Sarnac is arrested, and Nanette''s estates are restored to her.'
'comedy','In Pontus, the land of the Amazons, the gender roles and natures are completely reversed. Women are the strong sex, thanks to the sacred girdle of the goddess Diana (Roman names are used). It is in the care of queen Hippolyta and her sister Antiope (in the 1932 production played by Katharine Hepburn), the commander of the female armed forces. The men stay at home and take care of the children. Only Sapiens, the new husband of queen Hippolyta, advocates men''s rights. Just like the relationships are reversed, so too are the Greeks for the Amazons a legendary race that probably doesn''t exist, instead of the other way around. This is about to change when two Greeks come to court to announce that Hercules needs to get the girdle of Diana to complete his twelve labours. In reality, Hercules may not be much of a threat, but his friend Theseus certainly is. Meanwhile, Sapiens, using his male wiles, is secretly trying to wreck the Amazon''s defense from within. Eventually he manages to capture Hercules, and let him escape with the girdle. Without it, the Amazons lose the battle and the gender dynamic shifts to roles matching the social mores of the 1930s.'
'comedy','Elmer J. Butts, taxidermist, goes to a dry rally, where he follows the beautiful Hortense and her gangster boyfriend Butch Laredo into the meeting hall. He sits by Hortense, only to be thrown out after the speaker asks if they want liquor back in this country, and he calls out “Yes!” The next day, Jimmy Potts, driving a car covered in pro-booze stickers, brings a fish to Elmer’s shop for stuffing. It''s Election Day, and there''s a referendum on Prohibition on the ballot. Jimmy convinces Elmer to vote wet, and they go to the polls only to cause confusion and collapse the booths. Later, at Jimmy’s barbershop, the radio reports that the country has voted to repeal Prohibition. At a hotel, a group of Spike Moran’s gangsters realize that their bootlegging operation is washed up. They wonder what Butch will do. At Butch’s place, Hortense asks if this means that she can’t have her Rolls Royce town car. Butch tells her she’ll be lucky to have a wheelbarrow, and he shoots the radio. Back at the barbershop, Jimmy breaks off of the celebratory conga line to tell Elmer his million dollar idea: buying a brewery. Elmer wants to be rich, too, so he can marry – and he has $10,000 hidden in his stuffed animals. They collect the money and take it to the president of the bank that foreclosed on the local brewery. Jimmy’s offer of $10,000 cash plus $5,00 a month is quickly accepted. Elmer and Jimmy arrive at the brewery, toting bags of supplies. They find three unemployed homeless men there, and they hire them. After dousing themselves with an unpredictable water hose, they assemble the ingredients for a five gallon batch of beer in the huge tank. It only makes a small puddle at the bottom of the tank. They realize that they need 500 gallons, so after donning raincoats, they start work. Later, they open the vat. Suds bubble up over the top. They bottle as much as the can, having several mishaps with exploding bottles and foam piling up over their heads. They put up a sign: “Real beer – 5 cents” and wait for customers. Instead the cops come in and raid them. The vote didn’t repeal Prohibition, it was only advisory. In court, the judge reads the charges and Jimmy protests that it’s persecution, but the chemist reports that it wasn’t beer, it was only brown dishwater. On the stoop outside the brewery, Jimmy consoles Elmer on the loss of his nest egg. Jimmy goes in and talks to the workers, and one, Schultz, reveals that he’s a master brewer. To make back Elmer’s money, Jimmy decides to make real beer and tell Elmer that it''s near beer. Weeks later, Spike and Butch meet to discuss who''s cut in on their racket. Butch vows to kill him. Spike and an associate interrupt Elmer, who’s reading a book: Modern Salesmanship and Big Business. Spike offers to buy 1,000 barrels a day, and gives Elmer $10,000 down payment. Full of the advice from the book, Elmer agrees. Spike says that his partners stay partners as long as they live, and he leaves. Elmer tells the three workers that they need to increase production, then goes to the State Employment Bureau for 50 more men. After they start work, Jimmy comes in and learns about the contract; he has a meltdown. He puts the $10,000 in his overcoat pocket, which he hangs on the office coat rack, and leaves. Hortense drives up and pretends to twist her ankle, so Elmer must rescue her and carry her to the office. After she fakes a faint, he douses her with water, so she takes off her dress and puts on Jimmy''s overcoat. She vamps Elmer until he mentions that Spike is their partner. Having learned what she came for, she leaves. Jimmy comes in, looking for his overcoat. Elmer tells him that Hortense has it. When Jimmy tells him about the money, Elmer doesn''t mind: she’s the girl for whom he wants to make a million. Hortense tells Butch that Spike is working with the brewers. When the $10,000 falls out of the coat, Butch calls her a tramp and hits her. She calls Elmer and he asks about the money. She denies seeing it, but he tells her to keep it and buy herself a Rolls. He asks her out on a walk in the park the next day. She''s appalled. At Spike’s office, two men say that Butch threatened to kill them if they picked up the beer. Elmer volunteered to deliver it. At the brewery, Elmer drives the truck away and down the street. Butch’s men decide to kill him at the top of a hill, but the trucks’ tire blows out halfway up, and the barrels fall off of the back and chase the gangsters away. Jimmy arrives, and Elmer mourns the loss of the near beer. Jimmy explains that it was real beer, and they’re involved with gangsters. Elmer won''t leave town, because he’s got a date at the park. Hortense and Elmer picnic, until a paperboy calls out the news: there’s a new gang war. Hortense kisses Elmer, sending him into the pond, and leaves. At the brewery, Jimmy learns that Butch killed Spike. Butch arrives and announces that now he’s their partner. Elmer comes in and tells them that Hortense loves him, but Butch asks “does she?” Meanwhile, the cops are planning to raid the brewery. Back at the brewery office, Hortense intercepts a man who’s going to tell Butch about the raid. On the brewery floor, Butch orders that no one may come in or out, and he posts guards on all of the doors. While giving Elmer the brush-off, Hortense slips him a note about the raid. Elmer escapes in a barrel, grabs a blackboard, and drives away. He shows what he''s written on the board to everyone on the street: Free Beer at the Brewery. The factory is mobbed, and by the time the police arrive, there’s no beer left. Later, a Senator speaks to Congress, telling the story of a town in his state where the gangsters were put out of business when the people stormed the brewery. He calls for an end to Prohibition. After the headline “Beer Legalized”, crowds cheer, grain gets harvested, and beer gets made and delivered. At Butt''s Beer Garden, Elmer and Jimmy arrive in an open car. Jimmy offers free beer, and the two get mobbed for autographs. The crowd steals their clothes, too. Hortense joins and asks if Elmer is hurt – he isn''t. Jimmy, holding a frosty brew aloft, addresses the camera: “It''s your turn next folks. It won''t be long now.” He blows off the head and chugs some down.'
'drama','Mary (Myrna Loy), a writer working on a novel about a love triangle, is attracted to her publisher (Frank Morgan). Her suitor Jimmie (Robert Montgomery) is determined to break them up. He introduces Mary to the publisher''s wife (Ann Harding) without telling Mary who she is.'
'drama','Italian aristocrat Angela Chiaromonte (Helen Hayes) spurns the potential husband chosen by her father (Lewis Stone) in favor of Giovanni Severi (Clark Gable), a handsome army lieutenant. When her lover is reported killed in World War I, Hayes renounces the world to become a nun. After she takes her vows, the lieutenant shows up very much alive. He implores her to give up the order, but she refuses. The lieutenant is later injured in a bombing raid; he dies, with Angela lovingly at his side.'
'drama','Tommy Gordon (Edwin Phillips) tells his friend Eddie Smith (Frankie Darro) that he is going to drop out of high school to look for work to help support his struggling family. Eddie offers to speak to his father (Grant Mitchell) about getting him a job, only to discover that his father has himself just lost his own. Eddie sells his beloved car and gives the money to his father, but when his father remains unemployed, the bills keep piling up, and the family is threatened with eviction. Eddie and Tommy decide to leave home to ease the burden on their families. They board a freight train, where they meet Sally (Dorothy Coonan), another teenager, who is hoping her aunt in Chicago can put her up for a while. More and more teens hop aboard the train. When they reach Chicago, they are met by the police. Most of the transients are sent to detention, but Sally has a letter from her aunt, so they let her through. She claims her companions are her cousins; the kindly policeman is skeptical, but lets them go. Sally''s Aunt Carrie (Minna Gombell) welcomes all three into her apartment. However, before they even have a chance to eat, the place is raided by the police. The trio hastily depart and continue heading east. Nearing Cleveland, one girl, caught alone, is raped by the train brakeman (an uncredited Ward Bond). When the others find out, they start punching the assailant. By accident, the brakeman falls out of the train to his death. A little later, as the train approaches the city, everyone jumps off. Tommy hits his head on a switch and falls across the track in front of an oncoming train. He crawls desperately towards safety, but his foot gets mangled and his leg has to be amputated. They live in "Sewer Pipe City" for a while, until the city authorities decide to shut it down, in part due to Eddie''s theft of a prosthetic leg for Tommy. Finally, the three end up living in the New York Municipal Dump. Eddie finally lands a job, but needs to find $3 to pay for a coat he has to have. They panhandle to raise the money. When two men offer Eddie $5 to deliver a note to a movie theater cashier across the street, he jumps at the chance. The note turns out to be a demand for money. Eddie is arrested, and the other two are taken in as well when they protest. The judge (Robert Barrat) cannot get any information out of them, particularly about their parents. However, Eddie''s embittered speech moves him. He promises to get Eddie''s job back for him and dismisses the charges. He also assures them that their parents will be back to work soon.'
'comedy','Successful shoe manufacturer John Reeves is annoyed with his staff, particularly his conceited nephew and company general manager Benjamin Burnett (who considers himself the driving force behind the firm), because they are losing ground to their longtime chief rival, headed by former best friend Tom Hartland. The two men had had a falling out after falling in love with the same woman; she married Hartland, and Reeves remained a bachelor. Nevertheless, Reeves is saddened to learn of Hartland''s death. When Benjamin begins to muse that his uncle has started down the road to senility, Reeves decides to teach him a lesson. He heads off on a fishing vacation in Maine, leaving his nephew to deal with the business situation by himself. By chance, a large yacht moors near his fishing boat. Jenny and Tommy Hartland, the party-loving offspring and heirs of Tom Hartland, swim over to see if anyone can supply them with liquor, Reeves is a little disgusted with their idle ways. Hiding his identity and calling himself John Walton, he befriends them in order to do a little spying on their company. However, as he gets to know them better, he begins to like them. They take him along with them back to New York, as they are responsible for his minor injury. "Walton" gets them to take him on a tour of their plant, which he discovers is being deliberately mismanaged by Fred Pettison. He figures out that Pettison is driving it into bankruptcy so he can buy it cheaply later. Reeves persuades Tommy to have him appointed a trustee of the Hartland estate. Tommy and Jenny expect him to do away with the restraints imposed upon them. When two other trustees express their concern about the fisherman''s qualifications, Reeves reveals his identity and the fact that he has grown fond of the young people who, if things had turned out differently, could have been his own children. Once he becomes a trustee, he starts making wholesale changes, on both the domestic and business side. He quickly discharges most of the household servants, as the estate is nearly depleted, forcing Jenny and Tommy to mature quickly. Pettison is also fired. Tommy begins working at his own company, while his sister, anxious to find out why their shoes are less popular than those manufactured by Reeves, takes a filing job with the rival company under the alias Jane Grey. She finds herself attracted to Benjamin. When Benjamin summons her to his office to fire her for her total lack of business skills, he finds her very attractive. Upon learning the news, she starts crying, and Benjamin reconsiders his decision. In the end, he reassigns her to work in his private office. Meanwhile, Reeves has revitalized the Hartland Shoe Company, and it start making serious inroads into Reeves Company territory. Benjamin is puzzled, as the methods used by Hartland seem strikingly similar to those employed by Reeves. When Pettison shows up in Benjamin''s office, looking for a job, he sees Jane. She begs him to keep her secret, but he tells Benjamin who she really is and lies, accusing her of spying on the company. This ends their budding romance. In the end, Benjamin insists on meeting "John Walton", and Reeves has to reveal his true identity to the Hartlands. Once they get over the shock, and Reeves informs his nephew that Jenny was not a spy, the young couple reconcile. All agree to Reeves'' proposal that the two companies merge.'
'drama','Flamboyant Zani (Gene Raymond) is a kindly young man who grew up entirely and works in the zoo in Budapest. His only true friends are the zoo''s animals, and indeed Zani (Gene Raymond) has been chastised by his boss for being too nice to them. From the fashionable women visitors who wear them, Zani steals their animal furs. While hiding out, Zani meets Eve (Loretta Young), a young and beautiful orphan girl. Eve must somehow escape from her strict orphan school, since she is faced with the prospect of being forced to work as an indentured servant (more like a slave) until she grows up. Zani and Eve together hide overnight in the zoo. Dr. Grunbaum (O.P. Heggie), the zoo director, is forced to organize a search party. Zani proves too elusive and harbors Eve in a bear cave. When evil zookeeper Heinie discovers them, Zani saves Eve from vicious attack. More scuffles result in crisis when dangerous animals become freed from their cages. The resourceful Zani brings pacification and redeems himself by saving a young child from a hungry tiger.'
'historical comedy','Both the Duke and Duchess have an eye for beauty and other partners. The Duke presently fancies a young woman who poses as an artist''s model. The Duchess has her eye on the famous artist, Benvenuto Cellini, who is in the palace making a set of gold plates to be used at ducal banquets. Cellini purportedly hypnotizes young women, and cuckolds the Duke of Florence. The somewhat oblivious Duke is loath to punish the young man, for Cellini fashions gold wares for him, but throws him into the torture chamber. However, a goblet of poisoned wine solves the problem.'
'drama','The gentleman of the title is Victor Gresham, a popular novelist. He has loved many women, and has been loved back by many of them. Several of these ladies have left the domestic security provided by their husbands in order to further pursue a relationship with Gresham, despite Gresham''s own advise to the contrary. As his lovers compete over him, Gresham uses his love life as inspiration for a series of cynical novels.[4] Each of his novels described the events of one of his love affairs.[5] Early in the film, Gresham is found dead in his own writing desk. The rest of the film explores the events which led to his death, covering the last twelve hours in Gresham''s life.[6] Gresham dies in New York City, while working on his latest novel, called Frailty. There is a note with Gresham''s signature nearby, which suggests that the novelist committed suicide. However, Inspector Quillan, who investigates the death, suspects murder to be more likely. Gresham''s former lovers are now suspects and six of these women are found to have been present at Gresham''s apartment, the night before his death.[7] The circumstances of their presence are soon explained. One of the women, Carlotta Barbe, had organized a surprise party for Gresham. She invited the Muses of Gresham''s novels to attend. Gail Melville attended the party to officially end her relationship with Gresham, before marrying her fiancé. Gladys Durland had been Gresham''s lover for two years, and attended the party to explain her plans to finally leave her husband. Foxey Dennison is also married, but still wanted to have an affair with Gresham. Nan Fitzerald was the inspiration for Gresham''s first novel and wanted to see him again.[8] The sixth woman at the party, Jean Sinclair, was apparently never Gresham''s lover. Sinclair is a female illustrator, and her relationship with him was professional. She hoped to illustrate Frailty, once the novel was finished. She arrived at the party with Carter Vaughan, her boyfriend.[9] The events following the party are depicted in flashback. All the guests leave for the night, except for Fitzerald who is drunk and sleeping. She spends the night at the couch of Gresham''s apartment. The following morning, Gresham has yet to decide on an ending for his novel. He discusses the matter with Fletcher, his valet, and asks Fletcher to think of an ending.[10] Fitzgerald wakes with a hangover and Gresham instructs her to get some proper sleep in his apartment. He soon discovers that there is a handgun hidden in her purse. Meanwhile, the morning newspaper reports the death of actress Peggy Fanning. Fanning was Gresham''s latest lover and the inspiration for Frailty. She had divorced her husband, a fellow actor, in hopes of marrying Gresham. However, Gresham rejected her and had no interest in marrying her. The newspaper reports that Fanning committed suicide in Paris.[11] The flashback continues. Durland visits Gresham to warn him of danger. Her husband has read Gresham''s novel about her and recognized his wife in it, due to a "detailed description of her sexual idiosyncrasies". Her husband wants to kill Gresham, and Durland tries to convince Gresham to flee with her to escape his wrath. Gresham rejects her offer and her love. He is no longer interested in her. Gresham is next visited by Barbe, who tries to renew her love affair with him. He rejects her and throws her out of his apartment. The next arrival is Sinclair, eager to show her sketches to Fletcher and get an agreement about the illustration of Frailty. Gresham hires her for the illustration of the novel, though he has another motive for the act. He has fallen in love with Sinclair and hopes to pursue a relationship with her.[12] Lyn Durland, Gladys'' husband, arrives and threatens to kill Gresham. Sinclair manages to convince the furious Lyn that Gresham is her own lover, and that they are going to marry. Lyn leaves, and the supposed couple embraces. There is a genuine attraction, but Sinclair does not trust Gresham. She flees the apartment, unwilling to become the topic of his next novel. Fitzgerald witnesses the scene and realizes that Gresham has fallen in love with another woman. She decides to leave him, and leave the United States for good. Gresham does not protest, but offers to purchase her handgun first. He is now the owner of the weapon.[13] Trying to finish the novel, Gresham has the idea to end it with a suicide. He discusses the matter with Fletcher, and the conversation turns into the matter of suicide in general. Fletcher informs his employer about Fanning''s suicide in Paris, and accuses Gresham of having killed the woman. Fletcher then has a confession for Gresham. He is not a valet, but an actor. "Fletcher" is the husband which Fanning cheated on and deserted. He entered Gresham''s service in order to get close to him and plot his revenge. Following his confession, "Fletcher" kills Gresham. Gresham finally has an ending for his novel. But he is dead and can not write it down.[14]'
'drama','At his 1875 engagement party, the wealthy Newland Archer (John Boles) is surprised to meet his childhood friend Ellen (Irene Dunne), beautiful and grown up and now Countess Olenska. Olenska is the cousin of his fiancee May (Julie Haydon) and is considered scandalous by the strait-laced society of the time. Newland, however, treats her well and sends her two dozen yellow roses. Olenska turns to Newland for advice about a possible divorce.[3]'
'comedy, drama','Anne Shirley (Dawn O''Day) is an orphan who has been adopted by farmer Matthew Cuthbert (O.P. Heggie) and his sister, Marilla (Helen Westley). Although the pair were expecting a young boy to help on their farm, Anne endears herself to them and to the local villagers. She befriends Diana Barry and most of the children at her school, all except for Gilbert Blythe after he calls her ''carrots'' and she smashes her slate over his head. She and Diana have a bet that Anne can flirt with Gilbert and he will fall head over heels in love with her. Little do they know, Gilbert overheard them and has already fallen in love with her. Anne flirts with him, which becomes unsuccessful, and Diana wins the bet. Anne lies to Gilbert that she has a boyfriend to make him jealous, but she only ends up embarrassing herself. Shortly after, Anne is playing the Lady of Shalott when she realizes her boat is sinking, and Gilbert sees her and saves her life. She then decides to forgive him and give him a reward for saving her. She will kiss him. Gilbert is surprised. Anne thinks he doesn''t want to claim his reward, but he tells her he does and that he wants her to be his girl. For three years they have an affair, but Mrs. Barry spies on them and tells Marilla. Marilla does not want Anne to even talk to Gilbert, since his mother broke Matthew''s heart. Anne and Gilbert are both devastated and Matthew is upset with Marilla, since it wasn''t she who got her heart broken. Anne goes to college. Diana, who is now married, visits Anne and tells her that Matthew is ill. She returns to Green Gables, finding out it''s for sale to save Matthew, since he needs the best doctor in Halifax. She remembers Gilbert is studying with this doctor, so she goes to see Gilbert. He tries flirting with her, and she eventually gives in and finds out that Gilbert heard about Matthew and begged the doctor to save him for free, which he did. After Marilla finds out what he had done, she forgives the Blythes and lets Anne and Gilbert see each other again.'
'drama','A young couple farm in Maine.'
'comedy, fantasy','Stannie Dum (Stan Laurel) and Ollie Dee (Oliver Hardy) live in a shoe (as in the nursery rhyme There Was An Old Woman Who Lived In A Shoe), along with Mother Peep (the Old Woman), Bo Peep (Charlotte Henry), a mouse resembling Mickey Mouse (and actually played by a live monkey in a costume), and many other children. The mortgage on the shoe is owned by the villainous Silas Barnaby (Henry Brandon), who is looking to marry Bo Peep. Knowing the Widow Peep is having a difficult time paying the mortgage, Barnaby offers the old woman an ultimatum – unless Bo Peep agrees to marry him he will foreclose on the shoe. Widow Peep refuses, but is worried about where she''ll get the money to pay the mortgage. Ollie offers her all the money he has stored away in his savings can, only to learn that Stannie has taken it to buy peewees (a favored toy consisting of a wooden peg with tapered ends that rises in the air when struck with a stick near one end and is then caused to fly through the air by being struck again with the stick). He and Stannie set out to get the money for the mortgage from their boss, the Toymaker (William Burress). But Stannie has mixed up an order from Santa Claus (building 100 wooden soldiers at six feet tall, instead of 600 soldiers at one foot tall) and one of the soldiers, when activated, wrecks the toy shop. Stannie and Ollie are fired without getting the money. The two then hatch a plan to sneak into Barnaby''s house and steal the mortgage, but are again foiled by their incompetence. Barnaby has them arrested on a burglary charge, and the two are sentenced to be dunked in the ducking stool and then banished to Bogeyland. But Barnaby agrees to drop the charges if Bo Peep will marry him. She reluctantly agrees, but not before Ollie suffers the dunking. Stannie and Ollie come up with a new scheme. At the wedding, Ollie is present to give the bride away. After the nuptials, but before the ceremonial kiss, Ollie asks for the "wedding present" (the mortgage) from Barnaby. After inspecting it, Ollie tears it up, and then lifts the bride''s veil — to reveal Stannie, who had worn Bo Peep''s wedding dress to the ceremony. Bo Peep is still free, and the mortgage is gone. Ollie teases Stan about having to live with Barnaby as Stan cries saying "I don''t LOVE him". Enraged, Barnaby plots his revenge, eventually hitting on the idea of framing Bo Peep''s true love, Tom, Tom, the Piper''s Son (Felix Knight), on a trumped-up charge of "pignapping", and getting him banished to Bogeyland. Barnaby proceeds to abduct Little Elmer (Angelo Rossitto), one of the Three Little Pigs, and then has a henchman plant false evidence (including sausage links) in Tom-Tom''s house. Tom-Tom is put on trial, convicted, and banished to Bogeyland, which he is taken to on a raft by two dunkers across an alligator infested river. A distraught but brave Bo Peep follows him. Meanwhile, Ollie and Stannie find evidence implicating Barnaby in the pignapping, including the fact that the alleged sausage links presented as evidence at Tom-Tom''s trial are made of beef. They later find the kidnapped pig alive in Barnaby''s cellar. A manhunt commences for Barnaby, who flees to Bogeyland through a secret passageway at the bottom of an empty well. Stannie and Ollie eventually follow Barnaby down the well. Meanwhile, Bo Peep crosses the river to Bogeyland, finds Tom-Tom and explains Barnaby''s trickery to him. Tom-Tom sings Victor Herbert''s Go to Sleep, Slumber Deep to Bo-Peep in an enormous cave set with giant spider webs. Barnaby catches up to Tom-Tom and Bo-Peep, and attempts to abduct Bo-Peep but gets into a fight with Tom-Tom, who gives Barnaby a well-deserved thrashing. An enraged Barnaby grabs a large stick and beats a stalactite to summon an army of Bogeymen, who chase Bo-Peep and Tom-Tom through the caverns of Bogeyland. The lovers run into Stannie and Ollie, who help them escape back through the well and are welcomed by the townspeople, who now realize Barnaby''s treachery. Barnaby leads an invasion of Toyland on a fleet of rafts in a scene reminiscent of the painting of Washington Crossing the Delaware. Ollie and Stan tell their story to Old King Cole (Kewpie Morgan), the King of Toyland, and the townspeople as two Bogeymen scale the wall and open the gate. The crowd flees in panic as the army of torch-wielding Bogeymen attacks Toyland. Ollie and Stannie run and hide in the toy shop warehouse. There they discover boxes of darts and use them to fight off the Bogeymen, thanks to Stan''s skill with the game of "peewees" (and help from the three little pigs and the mouse). Stan and Ollie then empty an entire box of darts into a cannon, but as the two search for the last remaining darts, they realize instead that they should activate the wooden soldiers. The "march" alluded to in the film''s title begins as the soldiers march out of the toy shop (filmed in a stop-motion animation sequence by Roy Seawright[5]). The scene changes to live action as the soldiers attack the Bogeymen with the bayonets of their rifles. Barnaby is defeated and trapped and covered by blocks that spell "rat", while the Bogeymen are routed and driven back into Bogeyland, where alligators appear to feast on them, although this is never made clear. The kingdom of Toyland is saved. Stan and Ollie decide to give the Bogeymen a parting shot with the dart-filled cannon. As Stan aims the cannon and lights the fuse, and Ollie turns away to avoid the loud blast, the barrel of the cannon flips backwards and unleashes the barrage of darts on Ollie, covering his back with darts. The film ends with Stan pulling them out one by one as Ollie winces. Bogeyland is the abode of the "bogeymen" in the 1934 film (and the 1961 Technicolor remake from Walt Disney). In the story, Bogeyland is separated from Toyland by a crocodile-infested river situated just outside the gate of Toyland. It is a dark, cavernous place, where twisted cypress trees grow, and many stalactites and stalagmites protrude from its rocky landscape. Citizens of Toyland who commit serious crimes are banished to Bogeyland.[6] Those banished to Bogeyland never return; they are inevitably eaten alive by the bogeymen. The miserly Silas Barnaby (a character based on the English nursery rhyme "There Was A Crooked Man") has a secret tunnel to Bogeyland at the bottom of his well. In the climax of the film, Barnaby leads an army of bogeymen out of Bogeyland in an attempt to conquer Toyland, but is thwarted by Toyland''s army of wooden soldiers.[7]'
'comedy, drama','After serving time in Sing Sing, Eddie Ellison (James Dunn) marries his fiancée Kay (Claire Trevor) and eventually the two have a daughter they name Shirley (Shirley Temple). Eddie helps his friend, and former convict, Larry Scott (Ray Walker), who is engaged to Shirley''s dance instructor Jane (Dorothy Libaire), get a job as a chauffeur for his employer, factory owner Stuart Carson (Richard Tucker). Trigger Stone (Ralf Harolde), who also served time in Sing Sing, steals Mrs. Carson''s (Olive Tell) pearl necklace and asks Eddie and Larry to sell it for him, but they refuse. Private investigator Welch (Alan Dinehart), the man responsible for Eddie''s conviction, tells the head of the National Insurance Company he suspects the chauffeurs are guilty of the robbery and informs Mr. Carson about their prison records, prompting him to fire them. Trying to escape from the police, Trigger gives the pearl necklace to Shirley, who believes it is a belated birthday present. As part of a game, she hides it in her father''s pocket, and when he finds it while Welch is searching the apartment, he conceals it in the carpet sweeper, but unbeknownst to him, the neighbor''s maid Anna (Lillian Stuart) borrows empties it before returning it. Kay returns home, and when she hears the story, they try to open the sweeper. Welch returns and opens it himself, only to find it empty. After Welch leaves, Eddie, Larry, Kay and Jane search the apartment building for the necklace. When Trigger threatens Eddie with a gun, Eddie subdues him and ties him up, then goes for the police. During his absence, Shirley discovers the necklace in the garbage can downstairs. She brings it to Eddie but instead finds Trigger, who convinces her to let him free. He takes her hostage and climbs to the roof, where he shoots Eddie. Although injured, Eddie manages to capture Trigger. Shirley takes the necklace from Trigger''s pocket, and detective Flannigan tells her she will be eligible for the $5,000 reward.'
'historical','The bulk of the story takes place in the lavish home of Edward Barrett (Charles Laughton) and his adult children. Upstairs, Elizabeth (Norma Shearer), called "Ba", the oldest girl, consults with her doctor. She is recovering from an undisclosed illness and is extremely weak – standing and walking are painful – but the doctor advises that a full recovery is possible. She has a vivacious and brilliant mind, her poetry is frequently published, she has a cute Cocker spaniel named Flush, and she loves fooling around with her siblings, especially her youngest sister, Henrietta (Maureen O''Sullivan). Her father Edward, however, is displeased by the rambunctiousness in Elizabeth''s room. He wastes no opportunity to remind Elizabeth that she is very ill and possibly in danger of death. He seems perversely determined to keep her confined, as though he does not want to allow her to make a full recovery; he even goes so far as to defy the doctor''s orders. When she complains that the porter which she has been advised by the doctor to take is making her feel worse, the doctor takes her off it and puts her on hot milk instead, but Edward forces her to continue drinking porter. His tyranny over the boys is more sketchily shown, but clearly, they are just as terrified of him as the girls. Meanwhile, Henrietta is interested in marrying her brothers'' friend Surtees (Ralph Forbes), who has a promising career in the military. But she discourages him. She cannot see any way around her insanely possessive father, who has forbidden any of his children – including his six boys – to marry. Robert Browning (Fredric March) arrives in a snowstorm, and immediately sweeps Ba off her feet. Her poetry has caused him to fall madly in love with her. When she expresses her fear that death may be at hand, he laughs it off and encourages her to seize the day. When he leaves her room, she rises from her settee for the first time and drags herself to the window so she can see him as he departs. Months pass. Ba is able to walk slowly and to go downstairs to see Robert. Edward warns her not to overdo it and tells her it''s just a temporary recovery. The doctors prescribe a trip to Italy for the winter. Edward is considering it, when chatty Cousin Bella (Marion Clayton) spills the beans that Ba''s relationship with Robert isn''t just a meeting of minds. Edward immediately vetoes the trip and leaves the house, saying he''s got another idea that may help her get the fresh air and sunshine she needs without having to leave the country. While he''s out, Robert and Ba meet in Kensington Gardens. He assures her that he will take her himself to Italy and that she should be ready by the end of the month. She says she''ll think about it. Edward''s plan turns out to be a scheme to get Ba out of London, away from friends and activity (all for the good of her health, of course). He writes, bidding her tell her siblings that he''s about to sell the house and move them all out to Surrey, six miles from the nearest railway station. Ba relays the message but doesn''t tell Henrietta, who is now firmly committed to Surtees. Unexpectedly, Edward returns early, catching Henrietta and Surtees modeling his dress uniform for Ba in her room. Brutally grasping her wrists, he forces Henrietta to confess her secret affair. Denouncing her as a whore, he makes her swear on the Bible never to see Surtees again and to lock herself in her room. Ba witnesses all of this. When Edward starts to blame her for aiding and abetting Henrietta''s illicit relationship, she reveals her true feelings. Smashing the facade that has allowed her father to keep a dictatorial control over every minute of her waking life – she says that, far from obeying him out of love, she hates him, and denounces him as a tyrant. Unrepentant, her father walks out of the room, saying she can send for him when she has repented of her sins. Ba conspires with her maid Wilson to let Robert know she will elope with him and Wilson is coming along. Henrietta, when set free, runs to Ba and exclaims that she will break her Bible oath, lie to her father if necessary, and run away with Surtees if she must. Edward enters and dismisses Henrietta to speak to Ba alone. He opens up to her and confesses his real feelings and the motivation for his "dragon" behavior. Edward apparently thinks of himself as having a sex addiction, and although the language in this scene is extremely euphemistic, we can gather that he tyrannized his wife as well, and that some of the children may actually have been conceived through marital rape. Edward now suppresses all his desires, equating all sex with sin, and he wants his children never to fall prey to carnal passion. As he goes into detail about how he wants Ba all to himself, to have her confide in him all her thoughts and feelings, he embraces her and actually comes close to making a sexual pass. Horrified by his inhuman behavior, Ba repulses him, and cries out that he must leave her. He apologizes and leaves, saying he''ll pray for her. Ba summons Wilson, puts on her cloak and hat, takes her little dog Flush and departs. As the two sneak down the stairs, we hear Edward saying grace over dinner. A few moments later, we hear the hysterical laughter of Ba''s sister Arabel (Katharine Alexander). The boys rush upstairs, followed by Henrietta, to find that Ba has left one letter for each of the siblings and Edward. Edward reads his letter and staggers to the window. As if drunk, he insanely mutters "I''ll have her dog", and bids his son Octavius take Flush to the vet and have her killed. Octavius cries out that it is unjust, and Henrietta triumphantly drives the final blow; "In her letter to me Ba writes that she has taken Flush with her..." The film closes with a brief scene of Elizabeth''s and Robert''s marriage, with Wilson as a witness and Flush waiting patiently by the church door.'
'drama, horror','A noted big game hunter, Bob Ward (John Preston), is visited in the jungles of Borneo by Russian scientist Boris Borodoff (Eugene Sigaloff) and his lovely assistant Alma Thorne (Mae Stuart), who want to prove the evolutionary link between man and beast. Ward at first declines to lead the scientists to a tribe of orangutans, but Alma''s charms finally convince him. Along with Ward''s pet orangutan, Borneo Joe, they track the apes and actually manage to capture a male orangutan, whom Dr. Borodoff anaesthetizes with a shot of whiskey. Borodoff, it soon appears, is quite insane -- and Bob, in an effort to calm him down, is knocked unconscious and dragged into the jungle by the tormented orangutan. He is rescued by Alma and Borneo Joe, but the trio can only watch as the enraged simian kills the evil Dr. Borodoff.'
'drama','John Dawson, a steel-mill owner loses his legs and his company in an accident engineered by his crooked secretary/treasurer, Jim Marley. After meeting a blind peddler, Marchant, he travels the country, under an assumed name, organizing beggars, peddlers, and the handicapped into a dues-paying system.'
'comedy, drama','Michael Carter (Gene Raymond) a young socialite returns drunk home telling the butler, that he will marry the next day. The butler talks to his parents and the next morning his sister Diana (Juliette Compton) pays a visit to see the young lady Mary White (Ann Sheridan) and to tell he a story about the brother having left for France, he always falls in love promises to marry and than leaves. Mary White can''t believe it, but at his home nobody lets her talk to him.Diana offers her a cheque and a ticket to California. But when she walks out, triumphant about her victory, she hears a scream and the body of Mary White has landed under the window on the hard street. When returning home she tries to make up a strategy for Michael, this one notices that they have strange behavior, unless they tell him what happened. In his despair about the loss of Mary White and his own family thinking about being disgraced by him, he takes the car and drives from one state to another drinking at every station he stops. At one bar he meets an Apache Man, very tall and very drunk and he invites him to drink from his bottle as the barman knowing him, don''t want to give him any. A little Woman comes into the bar and tries to tear away the Indian. But Mr. Carter still wants to have him on his side drinking. The indian girl Tonita (Sylvia Sidney), tells Carter he is no good and other things, meantime the drunken indian pulls out his pistol and starts shooting at bottles and things. Carter wants to shoot as well and tries to take away the pistol from the indian. In the fight he is shot in the shoulder. Tonita operates him from the bullet, to save her indian friend, and Carter asks her to marry him, as he thinks to disgrace his family. At the station the family is awaiting him with a lot of reporters and newspaper men. All the town knows about Michael and Tonita. The family at first desperate is again guided by Carter''s sister Diana. She proposes her parents to give a big reception ball for the newly weds and invite every important person in town. The evening of the ball she sneaks in Tonita''s room and convinces her to wear a beautiful night dress, whereas Michael wanted to dress her in her indian clothes to make a scandal. Tonita descends the stairs, beautiful and everybody is allured by her presence. She even answers to impertinent people, and finally wins them all. Michael is furious because he feels his family triumphs always over him. She is introduced to Mr. Prentice, the secret lover of Diana. When Tonita finds Michael, he tells her about his rage against his family. She realizes that he married her only because of his fight against his family and leaves him going away with Prentice. Diana follows them in his apartment and tells Prentice she left her husband to stay with him. He doesn''t want her back, as he says she is no good. Diana finds a revolver and shoots him. Tonita proposes to take the blame as she hasn''t any reason to live any more. And while she goes to the police station to give herself up, Michael comes to Prentice''s apartment to search for her. He finds the body of Prentice, and while the police officers arrive to see if the girl told the truth, Michael hides in a closet. Through a noise he makes, they find him and he confesses that he did it. At the police station, the inspector tells him that his wife said that she did it. When left alone, he tells her that she has to shut her mouth and let them think he did it, as she was said to claim guilt to save him. The scene ends up being the one love scene between Michael and Tonita, while the police officers are enthusiastic about their new bugging device through which they can hear even their kisses.'
'drama, crime','Jimmy Morrell (Charles Farrell) and Norma Nelson (Bette Davis) who plan to wed as soon as their neighborhood pharmacy begins to show a profit. The opportunity arises when former bootlegger Dutch Barnes (Ricardo Cortez) offers Jimmy a job duplicating name brand toothpaste and cosmetics that can be made cheaply and then sold in the bottles and jars of reputable pharmaceutical companies at regular prices. When Dutch asks him to copy the formula for a popular brand of antiseptic, Jimmy refuses, claiming he''s unable to get a key ingredient, but when Dutch offers him a bonus hefty enough to allow Jimmy to marry Norma, he agrees. Dutch''s ex-girlfriend Lily Duran (Glenda Farrell) jealous over his attentions to another woman, notifies the antiseptic company about the deception, and is murdered by Dutch. Without their key witness, the company is forced to drop their lawsuit against Jimmy. Now beholden to Dutch, he is forced to make fake digitalis drug. Norma is given some of the drug during childbirth and prompting her to lose the baby. Jimmy seeks vengeance against Dutch, but before he can achieve his goal Sheffner, who formulated the antiseptic Jimmy manufactured, shoots Dutch. Jimmy confesses everything to the district attorney and is exonerated, allowing him and Norma to return to life as they once knew it.'
'crime, horror','Newlyweds Peter (David Manners) and Joan Alison (Julie Bishop), on their honeymoon in Hungary, learn that due to a mixup, they must share a train compartment with Dr. Vitus Werdegast (Béla Lugosi), a Hungarian psychiatrist. Eighteen years before, Werdegast went to war, never seeing his wife again. He has spent the last 15 years in an infamous prison camp in Siberia. On the train, the doctor explains that he is traveling to see an old friend, Hjalmar Poelzig (Boris Karloff), an Austrian architect. Later, the doctor, Peter, and Joan, share a bus, which crashes on a desolate, rain-swept road. Joan is injured, and the doctor and Peter take her to Poelzig''s home, built upon the ruins of Fort Marmorus, which Poelzig commanded during the war. Werdegast treats Joan''s injury, administering the tranquilizing drug hyoscine, causing her to behave erratically. While Peter puts her to bed, Werdegast accuses Poelzig of betraying the fort during the war to the Russians, resulting in the death of thousands of Austro-Hungarian soldiers. He also accuses Poelzig of stealing his wife Karen while he was in prison. Early on in the movie, Werdegast kills Poelzig''s black cat, and Poelzig explains that Werdegast has a strong fear of the animals. Poelzig carries a second black cat around the house with him while he oversees his "collection" of dead women on display in glass cases – including Karen. Poelzig plans to sacrifice Joan in a satanic ritual during the dark of the moon. He is seen reading a book called The Rites of Lucifer, while a beautiful blonde woman sleeps next to him. The blonde is Werdegast''s daughter – thus, Poelzig''s stepdaughter – also named Karen (Lucille Lund). It''s shown later that Poelzig married Werdegast''s wife, and when she died, he married his daughter (who was told her real father died in prison). Werdegast, who is unaware of his daughter''s presence, bides his time, waiting for the right moment to strike down the mad architect. He also tries to persuade his foe to spare Peter and Joan, at one point literally gambling with their lives by playing a game of chess with Poelzig – which he loses. That moment comes during the beginning of the satanists'' service, when a female acolyte sees something which causes her to scream and faint. Werdegast and his servant Thamal (Harry Cording) snatch Joan from the sacrificial altar and carry her into the catacombs beneath the house, where Peter is rendered unconscious by Poelzig''s servant. Joan tells Werdegast his daughter is alive in the building somewhere. He discovers that Poelzig has killed his daughter and, in an insane rage, shackles him to an embalming rack, where he proceeds to literally skin Poelzig alive. As Joan tries to tear a key from the dead hand of Poelzig''s servant, Peter, regaining consciousness, mistakes Werdegast''s attempt to help her as an attack and shoots him. Fatally wounded, Werdegast blows up the house, first letting the couple escape but with Poelzig''s "rotten cult" still upstairs. "It has been a good game," he says before he dies.'
'drama, horror','A young girl, Juanita, finds her parents killed in a voodoo ritual on a distant tropical island. She escapes with her life, but when she reaches adulthood, she feels compelled to return to the island, bringing her daughter and nanny with her. Once there, she goes to stay with her uncle who lives on the island. She soon discovers that the natives, who had been using her for voodoo rituals when she was a child, now treat her as a voodoo goddess. In this role, she begins leading their rituals. Any attempt to fight Juanita''s influence or to remove her from her position is met with violent force. One person is found dead in a lava pit, while another is found hanged. At one point, Juanita is so overcome by the voodoo curse that she offers her daughter up for sacrifice. Juanita''s businessman husband, Stephen, follows her to the island and attempts to travel into the jungle to rescue her, but finds her taking part in a sacrifice of an innocent woman. Although he shoots the high priest of the tribe, Juanita completes the sacrifice herself. Their high priest injured, the natives now plan to murder all of the white people on the island. Stephen takes his daughter and two others into the fortified section of a plantation house. The natives succeed in capturing Stephen and his secretary, Gail, but they are eventually rescued. In the end, Stephen shoots and kills Juanita just as she is about to sacrifice her own daughter.'
'comedy, romance','Kitty (Ann Sothern), is a hardworking switchboard operator who is engaged to auto mechanic Bill (Paul Kelly). When Bill opens his own garage, the demands of running his own business soon take a toll on his relationship with Kitty. Frustrated, Kitty agrees to go on a blind date with Bob (Neil Hamilton), the wealthy son of a department store titan. When sparks fly, Kitty is soon forced to make a difficult choice between the two men.[1]'
'western','Wayne plays John Carruthers, an undercover US Marshal, but that is not disclosed until well into the film. He appears to be in town investigating a string of robberies committed by the Polka Dot Bandit (Yakima Canutt), but when he''s a little late in discovering one of the Bandit''s latest thefts, Sheriff Jake (George "Gabby" Hayes) thinks he''s the thief. For some reason, instead of arresting him, Jake accompanies him on his journey; after all, as Wayne says, "It''s kind of lonesome trailing alone." The two stumble upon a gang robbing a pack-mule train; they rescue Betty Mason (Eleanor Hunt), whose father has just been killed by the bandits. She and her father were bringing desperately needed provisions to town, but the bandits have successfully cut off any supplies, forcing the townspeople to consider fleeing their homes or starving to death. It turns out that the local rich man, with the meaningful name of Malgrove (Edward Peil Sr.), is behind the robberies. He knows there''s a vein of gold underneath the homesteaders'' property, and he offers out of the kindness of his heart to purchase their land for a pittance. B-movie bad guys have a tendency to crow about their evil plans without checking to see if anyone is hiding nearby, and when the grieving Betty overhears his plans, Malgrove and his henchmen kidnap her. Carruthers and Jake offer to make one last attempt to bring supplies in, and Malgrove and his henchmen make plans to murder them.'
'drama','The film in 1910 New York. Raoul De Baere (Raft) is a coal miner who wants to be a dancer, and tries to persuade his brother Mike (Frawley) to manage him. He dreams of moving to Europe and opening a nightclub in Paris. He does not have a lot of success until he teams with a female partner, Lucy, and they make a success dancing in a beer garden in New Jersey. Lucy is attracted to Raoul but he does not want to mix business with pleasure.. Raoul travels to Paris where he makes a living dancing with elder women in nightclubs. He finds a dance partner, Leona (Drake), and they have success together as a dance team in night clubs. Leona wants to start a romance with Raoul but he refuses. When Leona threatens to quit, Mike suggests Raoul start a romantic relationship with her, which he does, though he dislikes Leona''s jealousy and wage demands. A former Ziegfield chorus girl, Helen Hathaway (Lombard), approaches Raoul, suggesting they team up, saying she is a better dancer than Leona. Raoul agrees and he quits his Paris nightclub to go to England with Helen, dumping Leona. Raoul is attracted to Helen but, not wanting a repeat of the Leona situation, makes her promise that if he ever makes a move on her, she should reject him. She agrees and the two make a successful dance team. They appear on the bill with Annette (Sally Rand), who does a "fan dance" and who suggests she and Raoul team up, pointing out Lord Coray is romantically interested in Helen. Raoul is jealous. While holidaying in Belgium, Raoul and Helen fall in love and start an affair. Raoul sets up his own night club in Paris and he and Helen devise a very athletic routine to be accompanied by Ravel''s Boléro (an anachronism, as the composition was not written until 1928). The night they are meant to debut it, World War One breaks out and the audience are talking about it instead of paying attention to the dance. Raoul breaks off mid performance, and make a patriotic speech, promising to not dance until te war is over. Helen is touched by Raoul''s patriotism. However, when she finds out he just did it for patriotism she breaks up with him and goes to work as a nurse. Raoul serves in the army during the war and is wounded. On Armistice Day, a doctor tells him if he ever exerts himself again, he will die. After the war he tries to find Helen and restart his dancing career. He cannot find her but he runs into Leona, and they team up again. Helen marries Lord Robert Coray (Milland). Raoul opens a smart nightclub in Paris. On the opening night, as he is about to start the show, he finds Lenora drunk and unable to perform. Fortunately, Helen is in the audience and agrees to stand in. Raoul hopes that she will rejoin him. Desperate to impress the audience, he overdoes his athletic routine, collapses, and dies of heart failure.'
'thriller','The film is about a British police inspector (Edmund Lowe) who solves the case of a government head who was killed in his train compartment.[4]'
'drama','Letty Strong (Loretta Young) was raised in a good family, but became pregnant and ran away from home. She was taken in by elderly Fuzzy (Henry Travers), and gave birth to Mickey (Jackie Kelk) in the back room of Fuzzy''s bookstore at the age of fifteen. Embittered, she taught Mickey to be street smart so he will never be taken advantage of like her. Fuzzy strongly disapproves of how she is raising her son. Now seven years old, Mickey skips school and does as he pleases. Meanwhile, Letty earns a living by entertaining buyers so they will give business to her friend Steve Karns. A milk truck driven by Malcolm "Mal" Trevor (Cary Grant) hits Mickey as he is rollerskating in the street. When Letty''s lawyer, Adolphe, learns that Mal is the wealthy president of Amalgamated Dairies (out checking every aspect of his large business), he talks Letty into seizing the opportunity to make some money. They get Mickey to lie about the extent of his injuries. However, during the trial, Mal''s attorney (Paul Harvey) produces films showing Mickey fully recovered. The irate judge has Mickey taken from Letty and put in an institution for boys. Mal and his wife Alyce (Marion Burns) have no children. Mal offers to adopt Mickey, with Letty''s approval, so she can see her son more frequently. Mickey thrives on Mal''s country estate and the loving parenting he receives. Letty is not satisfied with this arrangement; she wants her son back. Adolph suggests she seduce Mal and blackmail him into giving her Mickey (as well as money) with a recording of their conversation. The plan works; Mal admits he has fallen in love with her, and they spend the night together. The next morning, however, Mal informs a surprised Letty that he has told his wife. Alyce is willing to sacrifice herself for Mal''s happiness. Letty comes to realize her genuine feelings for Mal, and breaks up with him, pretending to have only been toying with him. She then goes back to Fuzzy and asks for her old job back at the bookstore.'
'drama, musical','The film tells the story of a promoter who helps a Hollywood extra actress toward stardom, however she turns from him toward her leading man.'
'comedy, musical','5 year-old Shirley Blake (Shirley Temple) and her mother, Mary (Lois Wilson), a maid, live in the home of her employers, the rich and mean-spirited Smythe family, Anita (Dorothy Christy), J. Wellington (Theodore von Eltz), and Joy (Jane Withers). Shirley''s aviator father died in an airplane crash before the film opens, and she now spends most of her time at the Glendale, California airport with her godfather, bachelor pilot James "Loop" Merritt (James Dunn), and his dog, Rags.[note 1] After Christmas morning she hitches a ride to the airport. The aviators bring her aboard a ship and taxi her around the runways, where she serenades them with her rendition of On the Good Ship Lollipop Mary is killed in a traffic accident. When Loop hears about this he takes Shirley up in an airplane, explains that she is in Heaven, and that her mother is also there. When the Smythes learn of Mary''s death they make plans to send Shirley to an orphanage. However, Uncle Ned (Charles Sellon), the cranky, wheelchair-bound patriarch of the Smythes, is fond of little "Bright Eyes" (as he calls her) and insists that she remain in the house. His relatives grudgingly comply with his wishes, although they make her feel unwelcome. A custody battle for her ensues between Loop and Uncle Ned. In order to raise attorney fees, Loop reluctantly accepts a lucrative contract to deliver an item by plane, cross-country to New York during a dangerous storm. Unbeknown to him, little Shirley had left the Smythes'' home, found his airplane at the airport, and stowed away inside. When their plane loses control in the storm in the wilderness, they parachute to ground together and are eventually rescued safely. The impasse over custody is resolved when Loop, his fiancée, Adele (Judith Allen), Uncle Ned, and Shirley all decide to live together.'
'spy drama','In the days leading up to the Russian Revolution, Stephen Locke (Leslie Howard), a minor British diplomat, watches rioting in the streets. Revolutionary Elena Moura (Kay Francis) shoots it out with a Cossack soldier; when she retreats onto the grounds of the consulate, the soldier follows, forcing Stephen to intervene to protect British extraterritoriality. After the Cossack leaves, Elena emerges; she and Steven are attracted to each other, but their politics clash. Elena departs. After the Russian Empire is overthrown and the Soviet Union is born, most of the Western diplomats evacuate. Stephen is left behind with just a servant, "Poohbah" Evans. Day after day, he waits with mounting frustration for instructions, passing the time with others in the same situation, American Bob Medill (William Gargan), Gaston LeFarge (Phillip Reed) and Tito Del Val (Cesar Romero). His boredom is lifted when he meets Elena again. She is now an important member of the government, working for Commissioner of War Trotsky (J. Carrol Naish). He romances her, and they quickly fall in love. However, her first loyalty is to her country. She demonstrates this when Stephen finally receives orders from England. He is to try to prevent the Soviet Union from concluding a separate peace with Imperial Germany, which would free up large numbers of German soldiers for the Western Front; however, he is warned that he is only an "unofficial" British representative. Stephen carelessly reads the message in Elena''s hearing. She passes along the information to her boss. As a result, when Stephen pleads with the Soviet government in Moscow to keep fighting, his arguments are undercut by their awareness of his status. He manages to get a delay of three weeks, to see if he can persuade his superiors to agree to Soviet demands: £50 million, five army divisions and munitions. Instead, without Stephen''s knowledge, the British send a force to Archangel to fight alongside the internal enemies of the Soviets. After the Czar is executed, Medill, LeFarge and Del Val persuade Stephen to join them in supporting counterrevolutionary forces. When Lenin is seriously wounded in an assassination attempt, the Soviets initiate a harsh crackdown. LeFarge and Del Val are killed while attempting to contact a rebel military leader in the city. Medill tries to do the same, but is caught and tortured for Stephen''s whereabouts. When he refuses to crack, he is sentenced to die by firing squad the next day. Elena is ordered to persuade him to tell her where Stephen is; knowing she is in love with Stephen, Medill gives her the address. She reluctantly gives the information to Trotsky, who orders soldiers to level the building. Elena sneaks into the building, determined to die with Stephen. They are reprieved, however. Just as the soldiers start shooting, news arrives that Lenin will recover, and that he has ordered the release of all political prisoners. Later, Stephen and Elena depart for England; at the train station, Medill requests they send him a supply of bubble gum.'
'comedy, drama','Dan Brooks (Warner Baxter) runs a paper box factory for his father-in-law, J. L. Higgins (Walter Connolly), who owns most of the major business interests in Higginsville. Uninspired by his factory position, Dan devotes his time and energy to training his thoroughbred race horse, Broadway Bill, in hopes of returning one day to the world of horse racing. Dan is encouraged to follow his dream by his unwed sister-in-law Alice (Myrna Loy) and stable hand Whitey (Clarence Muse). One night at a family dinner, J. L. reports that sales are down in the paper box division and blames it on Dan''s neglect of his work. When he orders Dan to sell the horse and focus on his factory job, Dan resigns and leaves Higginsville without his wife Margaret (Helen Vinson), who shows little sympathy for her husband. With Broadway Bill in tow, Dan drives to the Imperial Race Track, where he reunites with former colleagues and enters his horse in the upcoming Imperial Derby. After barely scraping together the meager fifty-dollar entrance fee, Dan convinces Pop Jones to provide feed and shelter on credit, and then searches for a backer who can provide the five hundred dollar nominating fee. At a preliminary race, Broadway Bill bolts from the starting gate and is disqualified. Dan writes to his wife Margaret asking her to bring his pet rooster Skeeter, who has a way of calming the horse down. The rooster is delivered instead by young Alice, who is secretly in love with Dan. Alice decides to stay and help with the horse, despite Dan''s objections. He is unaware of her feelings for him. During a terrible storm, Broadway Bill catches a serious cold after being soaked by rain leaking through the old barn roof. Alice nurses the horse back to health, and then sells her fur coat and jewelry in order to raise the necessary nominating fee—telling Whitey to say he won the money shooting craps. The night before the derby, however, Pop Jones confiscates the horse because he was never paid for the feed and shelter, and when Dan tries to intervene, he is thrown in jail. Not even Dan''s "princess" Alice can help him now. Meanwhile, millionaire J. P. Chase innocently places a two-dollar bet on Broadway Bill at one-hundred-to-one odds to impress his pretty nurse. The bet is misinterpreted, and word soon gets out that the "smart" money is on Broadway Bill, making him the favorite. This pleases bookmaker Eddie Morgan, whose horse will benefit from the changing odds. To continue the betting and prevent Broadway Bill from being scratched, Eddie bails Dan out of jail, pays his bills, and arranges for top jockey Ted Williams to ride Broadway Bill in the derby. A grateful Dan is unaware that Eddie bribed Ted to prevent Broadway Bill from winning. During the race, Ted tries to rein in Broadway Bill, but the heroic horse ignores the jockey''s instructions and runs to victory. After crossing the finishing line, Broadway Bill collapses and dies of a burst heart. After the funeral, Dan and Whitey leave town. Two years later, J. L. announces to his family that since Margaret''s divorce he has sold off most of his holdings and intends to sell the bank next. His announcement is interrupted when Dan arrives honking his car horn, demanding that J. L. "release the princess from the dark tower". A joyous Alice runs to join Dan, Whitey, and their two new thoroughbreds, Broadway Bill II and Princess. As they''re preparing to drive away, J. L. leaves his family behind and runs after to join them.'
'comedy, mystery','Bulldog Drummond''s partner Algy is set to wed. Bulldog attends the wedding but on his return home in the deep foggy night he wanders into an old mansion of Prince Achmed in search of a telephone. To his shock he finds the corpse of an old man. Bodies keep disappearing as Drummond attempts to contact the authorities, including neighbour Captain Nielsen. But a woman is on the case, Lola, who is the daughter of the dead man.'
'comedy, drama','Henry and Ellen Smith are a middle-aged married couple who have settled into a routine life in the suburbs of New York. Henry feels that the spice has gone out of their marriage, while Ellen is more content with their lot in life. When the couple comes into a financial windfall, Henry suggests that they take separate vacations. Reluctantly, Ellen agrees, and Henry departs to test the waters of New York City''s nightlife. In the city, he meets up with Skeets, and the two go out on the town, eventually ending up pursuing Gloria Dawn and her friend Merle, Broadway dancers. After sitting at home and bemoaning her fate with her housekeeper, Whiffen, for a several days, eventually Ellen decides what is good for the goose is good for the gander, and she also departs to have some fun in New York. Upon her arrival she meets the sweet-talking world traveler, David McKenzie. When Henry and Skeets fail to connect with the dancers, Henry meets up with an old friend, Freddie Wilkens, who promises to show him a good time. Unbeknownst to Henry, Freddie knows that Helen is in town also looking for some fun, and he intends to provide it. He sets Henry up with a prostitute, and then goes to seduce Helen. While Henry takes his "date", Andree, out for the evening, Helen is busy turning down the advances of Freddie. After Freddie''s departure, Helen seeks out McKenzie, who takes her to dinner. As the night wears on, the amorous entanglements of both the husband and wife progress. McKenzie is receptive to becoming involved with Helen, and takes her to his yacht following dinner. He tells her he is sailing the following day. Meanwhile, Andree is also very open to having things proceed further with Henry, and the two head back to his hotel suite. As they do, McKenzie takes Helen back to her suite. There, things heat up between the two, and he asks her to go away with him when he sets sail. In Henry''s suite, he realizes that things are going too fast, and afraid of what might happen, he sneaks out and heads back to his house in the suburbs. Upon his return to their home, he is upset by the fact that Helen is not at home. In Helen''s suite, she is confused by the effect that McKenzie''s attention is having on her. Putting him off, she tells him that she will give him an answer in the morning. After he leaves, she is afraid of her feelings, and she heads back to her home. After she arrives, she and Henry realize that the two really love each other, and they reconcile.'
'comedy','Alcoholic newspaperman Steve Bramley boards the ship San Capador for a restful cruise, hoping to quit drinking and begin writing a book. Also on board are Steve''s friend Schulte, a private detective hoping to nab criminal Danny Checkett with a fortune in stolen bonds. Steve begins drinking, all the while observing the various stories of other passengers on board, several of whom turn out not to be who they seem to be.'
'drama, musical','The young Countess Wilma (Young) is forced to wed by midnight or lose her inheritance. Wilma impulsively chooses gypsy vagabond Latzi (Boyer), offering him a huge sum of money if he''ll consent. Swallowing his pride, Latzi agrees to the marriage, but soon Wilma falls in love with the young Lieutenant Von Tokay (Holmes) who is himself in love with Latzi''s gypsy sweetheart Timka (Parker).'
'mystery','Severely agitated by the howling of a police dog next door, millionaire Arthur Cartwright comes to Los Angeles lawyer Perry Mason to draw up his will, stating that the howling is a sign that a death has occurred. He wants to leave his money to the apparent wife of Clinton Foley, another millionaire and the dog''s owner, explaining that while "Evelyn Foley" pretends to be Foley''s wife, he is still legally married to someone else. Perry explains how Cartwright should word his odd bequest and after receiving a huge retainer fee, gives him a form to fill out and return. When Perry receives the form the next day, Cartwright has changed the beneficiary to Foley''s actual wife. The fee paid by Cartwright obligates Perry to legally and morally represent the real Mrs. Foley to the best of his ability. Foley attempts to file a complaint of insanity against Cartwright, claiming he is a homicidal maniac whose bizarre behavior prompted most of Foley''s household staff to quit. A sheriff''s deputy is assigned to investigate the complaint. He and Perry accompany Foley back to his house, where Perry questions why an addition to his garage is being built for yet another car if his chauffeur has quit. Attractive Lucy Benton, who Foley states is his housekeeper, rushes from the house with her right hand heavily bandaged to tell Foley that she was bitten by the dog while giving it an emetic, thinking it had been poisoned. When they ask to talk to Foley''s "wife" Evelyn, Lucy tells them that she has just packed her bags and disappeared. A note left behind states that she loves Cartwright and is going away with him. Perry goes next door and finds that Cartwright has also disappeared overnight. A telegram sent from Ventura and signed by Evelyn is sent to Foley asking him to stop his actions. Perry''s private detectives investigate and learn that Evelyn was actually Cartwright''s wife who ran away with Foley when they were friends in Santa Barbara with Foley and his wife Bessie. Lucy was Foley''s private secretary then, unbeknownst to Evelyn. One of Perry''s men is assigned to watch Foley''s house and sees Lucy drive away with an unknown man. A cab arrives with a woman in black. When Foley shows annoyance that she "found him", she tells him that she "wants justice" and he releases the dog to attack her. Two shots are fired, killing the dog and Foley, followed by the slamming of the garden door, and the woman flees. Perry arrives for a meeting with Foley and discovers the bodies. He immediately tracks down the cab driver at his cab stand, learning that a perfumed handkerchief left in the cab links "Bessie" to the murder scene, and then finds the woman, who is the actual wife and his client, in a hotel under an assumed name. He sends his secretary, Della Street, to impersonate Bessie and claim the handkerchief before the cabbie turns it in. Bessie denies killing her husband. Perry warns her that she is going to be arrested for Foley''s murder and orders her to say nothing to the police. Later, acting on a hunch when none of the handwriting samples of the three women gathered by his operatives matches the note and the handwritten copy of the telegram, Perry devises a ruse to obtain a page from Lucy''s diary of the day after the Cartwrights disappeared. During the trial, Perry discredits the cab driver''s identification of his passenger when he demonstrates that he misidentified Della as Bessie. During his cross-examination of Lucy, Perry has the trial shifted to the scene of the crime, shows that the dog was devoted to all three women, and proves that Lucy was Foley''s lover and is ambidextrous, writing the note, the telegram, and the diary page with her left hand. Just then, workers excavating the foundation of the garage addition discover the bodies of Cartwright and Evelyn, murdered by Foley. Bessie is acquitted after Perry in closing arguments states that because the dog loved her, he would never have attacked Bessie and been killed, destroying the prosecution''s only other link of Bessie to the crime. After the trial, Perry presents Bessie with a dog that looks just like the dead animal, and the dog delightedly greets Bessie. Perry states that when the howling suddenly stopped, he searched kennels in the area and found one where a man matching Foley''s description exchanged the dog for a lookalike. He gives Bessie the dog and orders her not to tell anyone what really happened. Perry later tells Della that he is sure that whatever Bessie did was in self-defense.'
'comedy','Ezekiel Cobb, a naive young man raised by missionaries in China, is sent to the United States to seek a wife. He is promptly enlisted by the corrupt political machine of the fictional city of Stockport, led by the corrupt boss Jake Mayo (George Barbier) to run for mayor as phony "reform" politician. He is expected to be the "cat''s paw" of the political machine. Cobb unexpectedly takes his job seriously. Frequently quoting Chinese poet “Ling Po” (an apparent mispronunciation of Li Po), he embarks on a campaign to clean his town of its corrupt political machine. Fighting back, the corrupt politicians frame Cobb. He turns the table on them, however, by enlisting the help of his friends in the local Chinese community, who help him kidnap the corrupt politicians and their hoodlum backers, detaining them in the "cellar of Tien Wang." He tells them that since his attempts to use western methods have not worked, he is going to use the methods of the ancient Chinese: either they confess or they will be executed. They take a man into a back room – everyone says it’s a bluff, but then the man screams in terror and a moment later his decapitated body is brought out with his head set on top of his chest. When the second man is taken to the back room, it is shown that Cobb has enlisted the help of The Great Chang a famous Chinese magician on his first American tour, and that they are using his tricks to fake the executions. This tactic works, and Mayo decides to throw his support to Cobb after all. The town is swept of its corruption and Cobb, with the support of local girl Petunia Pratt (Una Merkel), abandons plans to return to China and stays in the U.S. to fight corruption in his town. But his new wife insists on him returning to China.'
'drama','Eager to marry his devoted secretary, Diane Lovering (Joan Crawford), New York City shipping magnate Richard Field (Otto Kruger) asks his wife Louise (Marjorie Gateson) for a divorce. Louise, however, refuses to give up her social position and denies Richard''s request. Although Diane insists that she will continue to love him without the benefit of marriage, Richard asks her to contemplate her choices while cruising to South America on one of his boats. Diane agrees to the cruise, but vows to return to New York unchanged. Soon after boarding, Diane meets Johnnie Smith (Stuart Erwin) in the ship''s bar and rejects his flirtations. Johnny asks his smooth-talking best friend, Mike Bradley (Clark Gable), for help, but is double-crossed when Mike treats him like a drunk who''s annoying Diane. Mike charms her and a shipboard romance blossoms. Still true to Richard, Diane makes no commitments to Mike. He persists, inviting her to visit his ranch in Buenos Aires. After a fun-filled day, Diane and Mike confess their mutual love. Diane finally tells him about Richard, but ealizing that Mike is the man she truly loves, Diane promises that when she returns to New York, she will end her affair with Richard. Richard, however, presents her with a wedding ring and explains that his wife finally agreed to divorce him on condition that he not be allowed to see his sons. Overwhelmed by his sacrifice for her, Diane says nothing about her new romance. After writing Mike a "Dear John" letter dumping him, she marries the millionaire. A year later, Diane runs into Mike in a New York gun shop and suggests they dine together. In spite of his bitterness, Mike still loves Diane and senses that she still loves him. Diane explains why she is loyal to Richard. Mike drops by their country house and, in spite of Diane''s protests, vows to confront his rival. When Mike sees how kind and caring Richard is with Diane, however, he backs down and leaves. Richard reveals he had long sensed that she was in love with another man and nobly offers to divorce her. Unchained at last, Diane and Mike begin their married life on his Argentine ranch.'
'drama, romance','After their graduation from college, friends Catherine Furness (Janet Gaynor), Chris Thring (Charles Farrell), Mack McGowan (James Dunn) and Madge Rountree (Ginger Rogers) move to New York City. Madge hopes to become an actress, lawyer Chris wants to work for a big firm, Mack aspires to being a radio crooner, and Catherine desires to be a writer. Although the quartet are great friends, their relationships are strained by their romantic entanglements, for Catherine is in love with Chris, who has eyes only for Madge, while Madge cannot make up her mind between Chris and Mack, who adores Catherine.[2] After a 15-hour transcontinental flight, the youngsters call Phyllis Carmichael (Barbara Barondess), an alumnus of their university, who invites them to a party. Later, when none of the friends have jobs yet, a desperate Catherine responds to an ad seeking parents for orphaned infants. After Catherine explains to Dr. Nathan Kurtzman (Gustav von Seyffertitz), the babies'' caretaker, that as an orphan herself she is willing to work as a nanny for anyone who adopts one of the babies, Harriet Hawkins (Beryl Mercer), a kindly old woman who runs a used clothing shop, hires her. Harriet explains that she keeps one of the babies with her to show to the rich people who drop off their clothes in hopes that someone will adopt the child. Catherine rushes to the boardinghouse where the friends are staying and discovers that Chris and Mack have also found jobs. Their excitement is short-lived, however, for Madge announces that she is leaving to live with Phyllis, who can introduce her to a better class of people. While Mack disparages Madge''s selfishness, Catherine is heartbroken when Chris runs after Madge. Mack proposes to Catherine, but she gently turns him down and moves in with Harriet. A month later, Mack visits Catherine and helps her persuade Louise Mockby (Drue Leyton) to adopt the boy for whom Harriet is caring. Catherine learns from Mack that Chris became ill and disappeared after Madge left with businessman Howard Jackson (Kenneth Thomson) to be married in California. Catherine tracks down Chris, who requires round-the-clock nursing. Her loving care saves his life, and after Chris recovers, he realizes that he loves her. The two are wed and everything goes well until the return of Madge, who decided not to marry Howard. Madge has inherited a large amount of money and pesters Chris, who now works for Gerald Mockby (Theodore von Eltz), Louise''s lawyer husband, for legal advice. Catherine is jealous of the attention Chris pays to Madge and finally confronts her. Catherine and Chris are to spend the weekend with the Mockbys, and Madge states that if she cannot persuade Chris to stay with her, she will give him up. Catherine is crushed when Chris misses their train and goes to the Mockbys alone. Chris soon arrives, however, and Catherine hugs him as he says he wants only her.[3]'
'mystery','When a young English man is convicted of murder and sentenced to hang, his sister and her fiancé, convinced of his innocence, ask visiting detective Charlie Chan to investigate the crime and find the real murderer. In order to solve the mystery, he must visit a lavish country manor house in England where the suspects vary from the housekeeper to a lawyer. Events soon indicate that the murderer is still actively trying to avoid capture, but Charlie Chan must set a trap to reveal the criminal''s identity.'
'mystery','Chan is hired to transport a pearl necklace. When his employer is murdered, he sets out to unmask the killer.'
'comedy','The Palmers, a gang of thieves posing as a wealthy family, move next door to the Lazarres with plans of robbing them. The Palmers don''t realize is that the Lazarres are also a gang of criminals planning to rob their new wealthy neighbors, the Palmers.'
'comedy, drama','In a variation of Captains Courageous, J.B. Matthews (Frank Craven) president of a railroad, is getting sick of doctors, when he falls off his train, and meets up with a pair of hoboes, King (James Burke) and Napoleon (Jimmy Conlin), who show him how to enjoy life, and real cooking. It''s up to intrepid reporter Jimmy Dugan (Ray Walker) and Helen (Sally Blane) to find him, and bring him in; before a rival ruins him. But, time is running out.'
'drama','In 48 BC, Cleopatra vies with her brother Ptolemy for control of Egypt. Pothinos (Leonard Mudie) kidnaps her and Apollodorus (Irving Pichel) and strands them in the desert. When Pothinos informs Julius Caesar that the queen has fled the country, Caesar is ready to sign an agreement with Ptolemy when Apollodorus appears, bearing a gift carpet for the Roman. When Apollodorus unrolls it, Cleopatra emerges, much to Pothinos'' surprise. He tries to deny who she is. However Caesar sees through the deception and Cleopatra soon beguiles Caesar with the prospect of the riches of not only Egypt, but also India. Later, when they are seemingly alone, she spots a sandal peeking out from underneath a curtain and thrusts a spear into the hidden Pothinos, foiling his assassination attempt. Caesar makes Cleopatra the sole ruler of Egypt, and begins an affair with her. Caesar eventually returns to Rome with Cleopatra to the cheers of the masses, but Roman unease is directed at Cleopatra. Cassius (Ian Maclaren), Casca (Edwin Maxwell), Brutus (Arthur Hohl) and other powerful Romans become disgruntled, rightly suspecting that he intends to abolish the Roman Republic and make himself emperor, with Cleopatra as his empress (after divorcing Calpurnia, played by Gertrude Michael). Ignoring the forebodings of Calpurnia, Cleopatra, and a soothsayer (Harry Beresford) who warns him about the Ides of March, Caesar goes to announce his intentions to the Senate. Before he can do so, he is assassinated. Cleopatra is heartbroken at the news. At first, she wants to go to him, but Apollodorus tells her that Caesar did not love her, only her power and wealth, and that Egypt needs her. They return home. Bitter rivals Marc Antony and Octavian (Ian Keith) are named co-rulers of Rome. Antony, disdainful of women, invites Cleopatra to meet with him in Tarsus, intending to bring her back to Rome as a captive. Enobarbus (C. Aubrey Smith), his close friend, warns Antony against meeting Cleopatra, but he goes anyway. She entices him to her barge and throws a party with many exotic animals and beautiful dancers, and soon bewitches him. Together, they sail to Egypt. King Herod (Joseph Schildkraut), who has secretly allied himself with Octavian, visits the lovers. He informs Cleopatra privately that Rome and Octavian can be appeased if Antony were to be poisoned. Herod also tells Antony the same thing, with the roles reversed. Antony laughs off his suggestion, but a reluctant Cleopatra, reminded of her duty to Egypt by Apollodorus, tests a poison on a condemned murderer (Edgar Dearing) to see how it works. Before Antony can drink the fatal wine, however, they receive news that Octavian has declared war. Antony orders his generals and legions to gather, but Enobarbus informs him that they have all deserted out of loyalty to Rome. Enobarbus tells his comrade that he can wrest control of Rome away from Octavian by having Cleopatra killed, but Antony refuses to consider it. Enobarbus bids Antony goodbye, as he will not fight for an Egyptian queen against Rome. A short montage sequence shows the fighting between the forces of Antony and Octavian, ending in the naval Battle of Actium. Antony fights on with the Egyptian army, and is defeated. Octavian and his soldiers surround and besiege Antony and Cleopatra. Antony is mocked when he offers to fight them one by one. Without his knowledge, Cleopatra opens the gate and offers to cede Egypt in return for Antony''s life in exile, but Octavian turns her down. Meanwhile, Antony believes that she has deserted him for his rival and stabs himself. When Cleopatra returns, she is heartbroken to find him dying. They reconcile before he perishes. Then, with the gates breached, Cleopatra kills herself with a poisonous snake and is found sitting on her throne, dead.'
'comedy','In medieval England, Bert and his friend, Bob are put into the stocks after Bert is caught stealing. A local young boy helps them escape. Bert, Bob and the young boy are chased by jailers through the countryside. It becomes apparent that the young boy is actually a young woman named Mary Ann. Mary Ann is attempting her own escape, from an arranged marriage to the Duke. Mary Ann reveals herself after they arrive at the Duke''s castle. Bert falls in love with her. Mary Ann agrees to the wedding after Mary Ann''s father is threatened by the Duke to get his daughter to marry him. Bob, meanwhile, has fallen for the wife of the Baron. The Baron is enraged when he learns of his wife''s infidelity. His vengeance is postponed when a local boar is spotted and the hunt is on. Bert and Bob capture the animal and win the bounty, letting Bert save Mary Ann from her ill-fated marriage.'
'comedy','Cocky college football star Francis Finnegan has his eye on the attractive Gloria van Dayham, as does his rival, Larry Stacey. Francis gets a job in a department store owned by Stacey''s father, where salesgirl June Cort develops an attraction to him. Finnegan proposes that Stacey''s store sponsor a football team, which causes rival shop owner Whimple to do likewise. The team''s head cheerleader, Mimi, falls for team mascot Joe, meanwhile, and everybody pairs off with the perfect partner after the big game.'
'drama','"Lucky" Davis, a ladies'' man and a devil-may-care U.S. Marine sergeant, is leading a Marine squadron on an expedition through a Philippine jungle where an outlaw bandit is leading a guerrilla-war rebellion. Their assignment is to rescue a group of children from an island mission that has been cut off from all communication. When they arrive, they get a bit of a surprise when Davis discovers that the "children" are a group of 18- to 25-year-old girls blissfully bathing in a pool while awaiting rescue.'
'drama, adventure','In 1815, a French merchant ship stops at the island of Elba. A letter from the exiled Napoleon is given to the ship''s captain to deliver to a man in Marseille. Before he dies of a sickness, the captain entrusts the task to his first officer, Edmond Dantès (Donat). However, the city magistrate, Raymond de Villefort, Jr. (Calhern), is tipped off by an informer, the second officer, Danglars (Raymond Walburn), and has both men arrested after the exchange. Dantès'' friend Fernand Mondego (Sidney Blackmer) accompanies him to the jail. However, he, Danglars, and de Villefort all stand to gain from keeping Dantès imprisoned: Mondego is in love with Dantès'' fiancée, Mercedes (Landi); Danglars wants to be promoted captain in Dantès'' place; and the man who accepted the letter turns out to be de Villefort''s father (Lawrence Grant). De Villefort consigns Dantès without trial to a notorious prison, the Château d''If, on the false testimony of Danglars. When Napoleon returns to France, giving Dantès'' friends hope for his release, de Villefort signs a false statement that he was killed trying to escape, which Mondego shows to Mercedes. Deceived, she gives in to her mother''s deathbed wish and marries Mondego. Eight years of solitary confinement follow for Dantès. Then one day, the aged Abbé Faria (O. P. Heggie), a fellow prisoner, breaks into his cell through a tunnel he has been digging. The two join forces; Faria calculates it will take five more years to finish. In the meantime, he starts educating Dantès. However, as they near their goal, a cave-in fatally injures the old man. Before he dies, he bequeaths a vast hidden treasure to his protégé (Faria''s enemies had tortured and imprisoned him in an unsuccessful attempt to extract its location). The body is sewn into a shroud, but while the undertaker is away, Dantès substitutes himself for the corpse undetected. He is cast into the sea. He frees himself and is picked up by a smuggling ship. Dantès later follows the abbé''s directions and finds the treasure on the uninhabited island of Monte Cristo. With a fortune at his command, he sets in motion his plans for revenge. To begin, he arranges to have Albert (Mercedes and Mondego''s son) kidnapped and held for ransom. Dantès "rescues" the younger man in order to gain entry into Paris society, using his purchased title of Count of Monte Cristo. First to be brought to justice is Mondego. While the French ambassador to Albania, Mondego gained renown for his bravery in an unsuccessful defense of Ali Pasha. Dantès arranges a ball to "honor" his enemy, then arranges to have him exposed publicly as the one who betrayed Ali Pasha to his death at the hands of the Turks. Unaware of the count''s role in his disgrace, Mondego goes to him for advice. Dantès reveals his identity and they engage in a duel; Dantès wins, but spares Mondego, who returns home and commits suicide. Next is Danglars, now the most influential banker in Paris. Dantès uses his services to buy and sell shares, sharing tips he receives from his informants. When these turn out to be infallibly profitable, Danglars bribes a man to send him copies of messages to Dantès. Greed leads him to invest all of his money on the next report, just as Dantès had planned. When the tip proves to be false, Danglars is bankrupted. Dantès reveals his true identity to Danglars, who is left penniless and insane. However, there are unexpected complications that threaten Dantès'' carefully conceived plans. Albert Mondego learns of his involvement in his father''s downfall and challenges him to a duel. Mercedes, who had recognized her former lover upon their first meeting, begs him not to kill her son. He agrees. Fortunately, Albert deliberately changes his aim because his mother has told him who Monte Cristo really is, and the duel ends without injury. De Villefort has risen to the high office of State Attorney. Dantès sends him information about his true identity and activities, which leads to his arrest and trial. At first, Dantès refuses to testify, in order to shield de Villefort''s daughter Valentine (Irene Hervey), who is in love with Albert. However, when she learns of it, she urges him to defend himself. Dantès does so, providing evidence of de Villefort''s longstanding corruption. At last, with all of his enemies destroyed, Dantès is reunited with Mercedes.'
'crime','Famous detective Dan Gifford arrives home he is surprised to find his wife, Andra, is attracted to famous crime novelist, Eric Anderson. Jealous, he decides to write his own crime novel. When he overhears Andra on the phone with Eric later that evening, he plans to commit the perfect murder and to frame Eric for it. In order to accomplish this, he hires Blanche Flynn, an ex-con, to rent the apartment above Eric''s and to keep notes on Eric''s activity. However, when Blanche sees Andra entering the apartment, she decides to make a new deal for herself. She approaches Eric and blackmails him for $10,000 to keep the affair secret. Eric agrees, and sets up a meeting with her the following evening to deliver the money. When Gifford finds out about the blackmail scheme, he realizes the perfect moment to hatch his own scheme as arrived. Offering to help Anderson, he arranges for Anderson to come to his office prior to the money exchange. When Anderson heads to Gifford''s office, Gifford sneaks into his apartment, and steals a gun, knowing that Anderson keeps a gun collection. He then quickly goes down to Blanche''s apartment, where he murders the young woman, after forcing her to write a note explaining she was romantically involved with Anderson, and implicating him in her murder. With all the evidence pointing to him, Anderson is convicted of the murder, and sentenced to death. However, Gifford''s plan begins to unfold when Andra refuses to accept the evidence, not believing that Anderson is capable of such a heinous crime. When Gifford understands the depth of his wife''s feelings for Anderson, he writes a note confessing to the murder, and then commits suicide. However, it is then revealed that the events of the contrived murder and subsequent events were all simply part of the book Gifford had sat down to begin writing at the beginning of the film. None of it was real.'
'drama','In 1916, childhood best friends, Bob Wilson (Ben Lyon) and Fred von Bergen (James Bush), are test pilots working for an American company that builds bombers for the European allies. Since he is German-born and faces prejudice against his heritage, Fred loses his job and, unable to find other employment, decides to return to Germany to fight for his homeland. Although he has no special attachment to the German cause, Bob quits the aviation company and joins his friend in Germany. On their way to a German airfield, Red Cross nurse Alida Hoffman (Sari Maritza) accidentally runs Bob and Fred off the road, Both men are immediately drawn to Alida, especially Bob although Fred is more shy. After Bob''s first unsuccessful mission, Captain Wolters (Erich von Stroheim), the squadron''s tyrannical leader, expresses his doubt about his loyalty but, desperate for pilots, gives him another chance. As the United States is drawn into the war, instead of sending him into a crucial air battle, Wolters arrests Bob. Fred, heartbroken that Alida has chosen Bob, quarrels with his friend, calling him a coward. Later, however, Fred allows his friend to escape from a firing squad and flee to the Allied lines. To prove his allegiance, Bob leads British bombers to the German base, while Fred is told by Wolters that he must shoot down Bob to prove his loyalty. Neither man is capable of killing the other, and, in the end, Fred sacrifices his life for Bob. After the war, Bob returns to Germany to marry Alida. The newly married couple then returns to the United States, and pay their respects to Fred''s mother.'
'romance','Sue Fleming''s suitcase opens by accident, dropping her clothes from a double-decker bus onto Norman Winthrop. She retrieves her belongings and enters the New York City bus terminal. Intrigued, he follows her and returns a garter belt she overlooked. Steve Borden, the man she is involved with, calls her on the phone (though he is also in the terminal) and tells her to buy a ticket to San Francisco. Afterward, she sees him with another woman. They board the bus too. Norman, who is supposed to go to San Francisco by train, decides to travel by bus instead. Murphy has orders from Norman''s father to keep him away from women. To Murphy''s satisfaction, Sue rebuffs Norman''s initial attempts to become better acquainted. May gives all her money to a friend, but manages to charm the bus driver, various relief drivers and Willy, a talkative, know-it-all passenger, into letting her ride for free. When the bus stops in Poughkeepsie, Steve and Nita Borden prove to be con artists, selling bibles at inflated prices to those who have lost loved ones recently, claiming they were specially ordered by the deceased. Nita, suspecting what is going on, later chats with Sue and introduces her husband, Steve. A disgusted Sue breaks up with Steve. She then makes a date with the persistent Norman at Niagara Falls. While Norman is getting ready, Murphy steals his clothes, but Norman goes with Sue to see the Falls wearing a raincoat provided by the tour company. When a tour employee demands the raincoat, Norman is shown to have only a bath towel on underneath. Norman arranges a candle-lit dinner for two in Chicago, but Murphy invites all the other passengers. When the bus later has engine trouble, the passengers go to a nearby carnival, where Norman challenges Sue to a bow and arrow contest; the prize, if he wins, is a kiss, but she proves to be a much better shot. Later, though, Sue finally lets him kiss her. In Denver, Sue goes shopping in a department store. Steve takes her into a tent in the sporting goods department and tries to get her back, but she turns him down. Nita finds them together. Sue tells her that she is through with Steve, but Nita does not believe her. After Sue leaves, Nita informs Steve that she is going to tell the police all about his scams, so he kills her with a bow and arrow. It is nearly closing time, so he is able to conceal the corpse in a window display as a mannequin. Back on the bus, Steve claims his wife is visiting friends in Denver. Then he tells Norman that Sue broke off their engagement. Norman believes him. When Nita''s body is discovered, the police stop the bus and question Steve. Sue states she left after Nita found the two of them in the store, but Steve claims that it was he who left. When Sue''s archery skills are revealed, she is taken into custody. However, Norman is able to cast suspicion on Steve too. The police decide to take everyone to Reno, but as they start to board the bus, Steve suddenly forces the driver at gunpoint to speed away, with Sue as the only other passenger. Then Steve takes the wheel and makes the driver jump off. Norman and the police land an airplane on the road ahead of the bus. Steve dies after crashing into it, but Sue is all right. When the bus reaches San Francisco, May and Willy prepare to get married, but he is arrested for bigamy. Norman and Murphy head to a lumber camp in Washington state, where Norman and Sue (and Murphy and May) pair off.'
'drama','When he is spurned by his fiancé, Ann Clement, at his college graduation, young doctor Adam Blythe begins drinking heavily. Ann marries the wealthy Jerry Grattan. Adam conducts surgery while under the influence, and loses his patient. Disgraced, he becomes a small-town veterinarian, unable to practice medicine. After seventeen years, Adam runs into an old schoolmate, Morton Talbot, who although he flunked out of college, is now quite wealthy. Hearing Adam''s story, he empathizes with his old friend, and begins to formulate a plan. He convinces Adam to accompany him to the upcoming graduation ceremonies at their old college, Clifton University. When they arrive, Morton hints of the possibility of his making a large bequest to the school of medicine to Dean Todd, the head of the college. It was Todd who had flunked Morton, causing him to leave school. Morton introduces Adam, claiming that he is an eminent surgeon with a flourishing practice in Europe. Meanwhile, Adam meets June Grattan, the 17-year-old daughter of Ann and Jerry. When an opportunity comes up, Morton pushes Todd to allow Adam to perform a very delicate piece of surgery. At first, Adam does not want to, but allows himself to be convinced to perform the surgery, which he does flawlessly. Impressed, Dean Todd offers Adam the position as head of the new research wing of the medical school, which is to be built with funds donated by Morton. June is equally impressed, and she and Adam fall in love. When her parents find out about their blossoming relationship, Ann is consumed by jealousy, which in turn fuels Jerry''s jealousy. He approaches Adam and threatens to tell June that Adam is her father, unless Adam leaves her alone. At a banquet that evening, however, Adam is consumed by guilt over the deception he and Morton have perpetrated. In front of the entire audience, he lets them all know the truth about his history. Everyone is in a state of shock, but June lets him know that it doesn''t change her feelings for him. Adam, seeing the hopelessness of their relationship, convinces June that he is not the man for her, and that she should return to her fiancé. After she leaves, Ann arrives prepared to let him know she still has feelings for him. Jerry, blind with jealousy, has followed Ann, and when he sees her with Adam, takes out a gun and fires at her. Adam jumps in front of the bullet. As he lays dying, he asks Jerry for the gun, which he wipes clean of fingerprints. Then, just before his death, he tells Ann and Jerry to say that he committed suicide. Morton dedicates the new research center to Adam''s memory.'
'comedy, musical','Eccentric multimillionaire Ezra Ounce (Hugh Herbert), whose main purpose in life is raising American morals through a nationwide campaign, wants to be assured that his fortune will be inherited by upstanding relatives. He visits his cousin Matilda Hemingway (ZaSu Pitts) in New York City, in Horace''s view the center of immorality in America. What Ounce finds most offensive are musical comedy shows and the people who put them on, and it just so happens that Matilda''s daughter Barbara (Ruby Keeler) is a dancer and singer in love with a struggling singer and songwriter, her 13th cousin, Jimmy Higgens (Dick Powell). On Ezra''s instructions, Jimmy the "black sheep" has been ostracized by the family, on pain of not receiving their inheritance. Matilda''s husband Horace (Guy Kibbee) meets a showgirl named Mabel (Joan Blondell), who''s been stranded in Troy when her show folds, and connives her way into sleeping in Horace''s train compartment as a way to get back home. Terrified of scandal, he leaves her some money and his business card, along with a note telling her to not mention their meeting to anyone; but when Mabel discovers that Horace is Barbara''s father, she blackmails him into backing Jimmy''s show.'
'mystery','Robert Chatfield is having dinner with his wife, Freda, and four of their friends: Charles Stanton, his business partner; Ann Peel, who works at their company; and Robert''s sister, Betty, and her husband, Gordon, who is another partner in the firm. As the dinner winds down, the subject of Robert''s brother''s suicide the prior year comes up. Robert''s brother, Martin, had died from a gunshot wound, which an investigation had ruled a suicide, brought on by his guilt over stealing some bonds from their company, of which he was also a partner. But now, during their dinner conversation, certain comments made by his companions don''t add up in Robert''s mind. As he begins to question them, Freda confesses that she had been secretly in love with Martin, and Ann reveals that she has been holding a torch for Robert for years. It was this unspoken love which caused Ann to not speak honestly at the hearing into Martin''s death, for she thought that it might have been Robert, not Martin, who stole the bonds. Betty announces that she has been in love with Charles, who then confesses to having stolen the bonds, in order to satisfy a debt owed by Betty, even though he has been in love with Ann. Ann then confesses that Martin did not commit suicide as everyone thought, but that she accidentally shot him. Unable to deal with the guilt of all the confessions, Robert leaves the room and shoots himself. After a moment, time returns to the moment that the conversation started after dinner, but this time Charles begins by declaring his love for Ann and asking for her hand in marriage, who accepts.'
'drama','A domineering woman, Victoria Van Brett, tries to destroy her brother (Rip)''s marriage to young Anne Darrow.'
'comedy','Leonard and Anne drive along the lovers'' road to Dover, intending to embark for Calais and go to Paris. The car breaks down and Saunders takes them to a nearby hotel, which turns out to be a residence with servants, owned by a Mr. Latimer. They are told they cannot leave for seven days so that they can see if a marriage between them will work. The next day, Anne begins to notice things about Leonard that she ignored before. Another couple in the house are about to leave after seven days—Leonard''s wife Eustasia and her lover Nicholas.'
'comedy, musical','After the Stock Market Crash of 1929, the Colt-Stratton family are forced to rent out their yacht to the nouveau riche at the behest of Nella Fitzgerald (Polly Moran), including gambler Barry Forbes (Sidney Blackmer) and his sidekick Freddy Finn (Sterling Holloway). When Freddy rigs the yacht''s roulette wheel to respond to his saxophone, in order to raise money for Linda Colt-Stratton (Sidney Fox), who has caught the eye of the gambler, he is caught, but moments later Captain "Sunny Jim" Roberts (Ned Sparks) runs the yacht aground on the South Sea Island of Malakamokolu, run by Queen Malakamokalu (Mary Boland), a white woman, who takes the passengers as forced labor. Tiring of them, she offers to release them if Barry stays to marry her. However, once she hears Freddy play his saxophone, she falls in love with him and plans to blow up the yacht with a bomb. Barry manages to rescue the passengers, but not the boat, and they accept their new home in the tropics.'
'mystery','The movie features a large dragon illustration behind the opening and closing credits. Monty Montague disappears after diving into a natural pool of water on an estate. Several people dive in, but there is no trace of him. Philo Vance and the District Attorney come to investigate and decide to drain the pool. They are told that there were craters in the pool, and sure enough Montague''s body is found at the bottom of a very deep one. His body has claw marks on it, consistent with the superstition that a dragon inhabits the pool.'
'comedy','When a woman finds out her husband is having an affair, she sets out to get even.'
'drama','While attending a girls'' school in Switzerland, young Christa Storm discovers she is expecting a baby. Student David wants to marry her, but he is poor and Christa''s father objects to him as a suitable spouse. Christa contemplates suicide by poison and even enjoys a final night out with friends before having a change of heart. Others from the rowing team, including the coach, are unaware of Christa''s plight. To punish her, the coach at one point makes Christa do strenuous dives and strokes in the water until she nearly collapses. All turns out well for her in the end.'
'comedy','Complications arising out of an attempt to cure a practical joker by his own methods.'
'drama','Evelyn Prentice, neglected wife of attorney John Prentice, begins a flirtation with Lawrence Kennard, a poet, who turns out to be a gigolo. It also comes out that John had a brief fling with a former client. After it appears that Evelyn shot Kennard when he attempted to blackmail her, Judith Wilson, another woman, is charged with the crime. Evelyn, along with their small daughter, convinces her husband to take on Wilson''s defense. But, as the case progresses, she becomes more and more worried that Judith will be convicted. She decides she must go to court and confess. Despite her husband''s efforts to prevent her, Evelyn blurts out that she apparently shot Kennard when they struggled over the gun. John manages to get Judith to confess to shooting Kennard, and to convince the jury it was self-defense. Once it is all over, John tells Evelyn all is forgiven and forgotten.[3]'
'comedy, drama, musical','When the Manhattan investment firm of Sherwood Nash (William Powell) goes broke, he joins forces with his partner Snap (Frank McHugh) and fashion designer Lynn Mason (Bette Davis) to provide discount shops with cheap copies of Paris couture dresses. Lynn discovers that top designer Oscar Baroque (Reginald Owen) gets his inspiration from old costume books, and she begins to create designs the same way, signing each one with the name of an established designer. Sherwood realizes Baroque''s companion, the alleged Grand Duchess Alix (Verree Teasdale), is really Mabel McGuire, his old friend from Hoboken, New Jersey, and threatens to reveal her identity unless she convinces Baroque to design the costumes of a musical revue in which she will star. Baroque buys a supply of ostrich feathers from Sherwood''s crony Joe Ward (Hugh Herbert) and starts a fashion rage. Sherwood then opens Maison Elegance, a new Paris fashion house that''s a great success until Baroque discovers Lynn is forging his sketches. He has him arrested, but Sherwood convinces the police to give him time to straighten out the situation. He crashes Baroque and Alix''s wedding and promises to humiliate the designer by publicly revealing who his bride really is unless Baroque withdraws the charges. The designer agrees and purchases Maison Elegance from Sherwood, who assures Lynn he''ll never get involved in another illegal activity if she returns to America with him.'
'mystery','When infamous jewel thief Flambeau (Paul Lukas) steals stones from a diamond cross in Father Brown (Walter Connolly)''s church, the crime solving cleric fights to retrieve the gems, and also to save the soul of the elusive Flambeau.'
'drama, romance','Virginia Radcliff (Frances Dee) is enrolled at the exclusive Crockett Hall finishing school by her mother (Billie Burke), with the acquiescence of her wealthy businessman father (John Halliday). Miss Van Alstyne (Beulah Bondi), the head of the school, informs her new student of Crockett Hall''s strict rules of ladylike conduct, but Virginia''s new roommate, Cecilia Ferris (Ginger Rogers), soon sets her straight. Van Alstyne and the rest of her staff do not really care what they do as long as it does not become public and stain the reputation of the school. On the weekend, Cecilia (nicknamed "Pony" for her love of horses) takes Virginia to New York, chaperoned by a fake "Aunt Jessica". They meet Pony''s boyfriend and Bill Martin, a conceited college football star, in a hotel room. With her new-found independence, Virginia decides to see what it feels like to get drunk. When she is, an equally-intoxicated Bill tries to take advantage of her. Hotel waiter Ralph "Mac" McFarland rescues her, punching Bill in the face. When he sees how drunk she is, Mac offers to drive her back to school. On the way, she discovers he is a medical intern at a children''s hospital. The hospital does not pay him, so he has to work at the hotel to make ends meet. Miss Van Alstyne is present when Mac drops Virginia off. Van Alstyne rebukes Virginia, not for being out with a handsome young man unchaperoned, but for being seen with him. Their relationship turns frosty. Meanwhile, Virginia sees Mac every chance she can, and they fall in love. At the Christmas break, Virginia''s father is tied up with work, and her mother decides to vacation in Florida, stranding her at school. Pony invites her to spend the holiday at her home, but Van Alstyne decides to punish her rebellious student by keeping her at school. However, Mac shows up secretly, and the couple sneaks away to the boathouse for a romantic evening. The camera pans away as they are kissing, but it is implied that they sleep together (a notion reinforced by Virginia''s later actions). A disapproving Van Alstyne intercepts and secretly tears up loving telegrams from Mac to Virginia, leaving the girl confused and heartbroken. When Van Alstyne insists that Virginia be examined by the school doctor, Virginia becomes first distraught, then defiant about what she and Mac have done. Van Alstyne summons Mrs. Radcliff and notifies her that Virginia is to be expelled. Meanwhile, Pony calls Mac to inform him what is going on. He shows up and takes Virginia away. At the school entrance, they run into Mr. Radcliff. Mac informs him that he and Virginia are going to get married that very day. After checking that his wife is not around, Mr. Radcliff offers his soon-to-be son-in-law a cigar and a congratulatory handshake.'
'drama, mystery','Arlene Bradford (Bette Davis) is a spoiled, bored, wealthy socialite who finances her extravagant lifestyle by exploiting her fiancé Spencer Carlton''s (Lyle Talbot) access to her stepfather''s brokerage firm and using her connection to steal security bonds for crime boss Jake Bello (Irving Pichel). When Arlene disappears, her step-sister Val (Margaret Lindsay) steps in to discover what happened to her with the help of society reporter Tony Sterling (Donald Woods) and photojournalist Izzy Wright (Hugh Herbert).'
'romance','Ever since Jeff Williams (Clark Gable) was a child, he has been in love with Mary Clay (Joan Crawford). Returning from Madrid, Spain, he wants to propose to her firsthand. However, he comes to a halt, as he finds out that she is being married to Dillon ''Dill'' Todd (Robert Montgomery) the very next day. The three had been friends since childhood, but no one besides the butler realized Jeff''s feelings. So instead, he wishes all the best for the couple. However, the next day, Dill doesn''t show up to the altar, as it turns out that the night before the wedding, he ran off and married Connie Barnes (Frances Drake), a woman with whom he had had an affair in Europe some months before. Mary quickly gets out of her wedding dress and projects strength instead of fainting. Although what Dill did to Mary was terrible, she still has a soft spot for him. Jeff and Mary are invited to a party at Dill and Connie''s house, and the two decide to attend in order to cause some havoc and shock the newlywed couple. While the tension between Mary and Connie is palpable, Dill is shocked to see Mary. Dill and Mary share a romantic moment outside, and Connie awkwardly walks in on them. Jeff tries to smooth the situation over, but Connie remains furious. Later, Dill calls Mary and Jeff finds out they intend to see each other. Mary knows she should not go, but the two go up to Aunt Paula''s (Billie Burke) country house in Phoenicia, New York. The two share a romantic day, and they profess their love for each other. Dill calls his butler to tell him to pick them up tomorrow morning, but Connie overhears and sets off for Phoenicia. Aunt Paula also realizes the two are at her house, and goes there with Jeff in order to prevent the scandal from getting worse. In fact, the night previously, Dill accidentally burned himself, and the two did not sleep together. As Connie arrives, Jeff and Mary pretend to be a couple, but Connie does not buy it. She wants to punish Dill for his perceived unfaithfulness, while Aunt Paula wants to avoid scandal. Connie accepts a lucrative settlement and leaves for Europe, thus leaving Dill free to marry Mary. Right before the ceremony, Jeff proclaims his love for Mary and tells her that he is leaving on a boat back to Spain. When the butler, Shep (Charles Butterworth), tells her the cornflowers sent to her last wedding were from Jeff and not Dill, Mary realizes she loves Jeff instead. She breaks off her marriage with Dill and joins Jeff on the boat—when Dill arrives at the wharf, the ship has already sailed.'
'comedy','The film tells the story of two men (Marshall and Gargan) and two women (Colbert and Boland), who leave from a plague-ridden ship and reach the Malayan jungle. The relationships between the four people before they enter the jungle are examined and are transformed as they interact with natural phenomena and the natives who populate the jungle. The film also relates how each of the four people carried on in life after they emerged from the jungle.'
'western','Wandering lawman Michael Wyatt rides into a lawless town and runs into conflict with the local boss, Doc Warren.'
'drama','Mike Lee raises his daughter Lady Lee to be as honest a gambler as he is. When he gets too much in debt to the underworld syndicate headed by Jim Fallin, he commits suicide rather than be pressured into running a crooked game. Lady initially goes to work for Fallin, then quits and sets out on her own when he tries to "help" her by providing a crooked dealer. Longtime admirer and bookie Charlie Lang proposes to her, but it is persistent young Garry Madison, who wins her heart despite unknowingly bringing two policemen in disguise to the illegal gambling den where she is playing. She resists marrying him, fearing the reaction of his high society father, but is pleased to learn that she already knows and likes Peter Madison, a fellow gambler. However, Peter does disapprove of the union, offering to buy her off. When she rejects his money, but meekly gives up Garry, he realizes he has mistaken her motives. Being a sporting man, he offers to cut cards for his son. He draws a jack, but Lady picks a queen, and the young couple get married. They are happy at first, but then both feel the pangs of jealousy. When Garry''s old girlfriend, Sheila Aiken, returns from Europe, he makes the mistake of greeting her too warmly. Lady challenges her to a game of cards, and wins her jewelry. When Charlie Lang is arrested, Garry refuses his wife''s request for $10,000 to bail him out, so she pawns Sheila''s jewels to raise the money. Charlie offers to reimburse her, telling her that he intends to pressure the syndicate into paying for his silence about what he knows. Garry becomes incensed when Lady''s involvement with Charlie is reported in the newspapers. He goes out to recover the pawn ticket, now in Charlie''s hands. Garry does not return that night. The next day, two policemen inform Lady that Garry has been arrested for Charlie''s murder, having been seen arguing with him and later being found in possession of the pawn ticket. Lady figures out that Garry spent the night with Sheila, but is unwilling to use that as an alibi. Lady sees Sheila, who is willing to testify, but only if Lady divorces her husband and insists on $250,000 alimony. Lady agrees to her terms. Garry is released and the divorce is granted. Both Garry and Peter believe at first that Lady was in it for the money all along, but when Peter sees her tear up the check, he realizes they were wrong. Garry tricks Sheila into admitting the truth, then reconciles with Lady.'
'crime','Gold-digging chorus girl Mary (Carole Lombard) marries the head of a bootlegging syndicate, gangster "Shoots" Magiz (Nat Pendleton), but his illegal liquor business goes down the drain when Prohibition is repealed, and Shoots is knocked off by rival Daniel Dingle (Sam Hardy). Mary, looking for a new sugar daddy, hooks up with Dingle, and when Dingle is removed from the scene by Mickey "The Greek" Mikapopoulis (Leo Carrillo), transfers her attention to him in return for a "trust fund." All the time, fast-talking straight-shooter Jimmy "Office Boy" Burnham (Chester Morris), Shoots'' former bodyguard and errand boy, has looked after Mary, passing her advice and snappy remarks whenever needed. In the end, Mary and Office Boy end up together but only after "Merry Widow Mary" gives away all the dirty money she was given.[1][2]'
'musical','Mimi Glossop (Ginger Rogers) arrives in England to seek a divorce from her geologist husband Cyril Glossop (William Austin), whom she has not seen for several years. Under the guidance of her domineering and much-married aunt Hortense (Alice Brady), she consults incompetent and bumbling lawyer Egbert Fitzgerald (Edward Everett Horton), once a fiancé of her aunt. He arranges for her to spend a night at a seaside hotel and to be caught in an adulterous relationship, for which purpose he hires a professional co-respondent, Rodolfo Tonetti (Erik Rhodes). But Egbert forgets to arrange for private detectives to "catch" the couple. By coincidence, Guy Holden (Fred Astaire) an American dancer and friend of Egbert''s, who briefly met Mimi on her arrival in England, and who is now besotted with her, also arrives at the hotel, only to be mistaken by Mimi for the co-respondent she has been waiting for. While they are in Mimi''s bedroom, Tonetti arrives, revealing the truth, and holds them "prisoner" to suit the plan. They contrive to escape and dance the night away. In the morning, after several mistakes with the waiter, Cyril arrives at the door, so Guy hides in the next room, while Mimi and Tonetti give a show of being lovers. When Cyril does not believe them, Guy comes out and embraces Mimi in an attempt to convince him that he is her lover, but to no avail. It is an unwitting waiter (Eric Blore) who finally clears the whole thing up by revealing that Cyril himself is an adulterer, thus clearing the way for Mimi to get a divorce and marry Guy.'
'drama','Four friends, Bob Bailey (Tone), Tom Martin (Ross Alexander), Smudge Casey (Dick Foran) and Fred Harper (Robert Light), are certain that upon their graduation from college, they will conquer the world. They face disappointment when they look for jobs, however. Because of the Depression, jobs are scarce and each one has many applicants. Fred goes to work for his father, Mr. Harper (Henry O''Neill), a prominent stockbroker. Eventually Bob, who intends to become a journalist, manages to sell occasional articles to the newspaper, and Tom also finds work. Smudge, a star athlete, unsuccessfully looks for work as a coach. Tom is in love with Trudy Talbot (Jean Muir), who moves to New York to be near him. She shares a room with Susan Merrill (Ann Dvorak), a librarian. Tom invites Bob to double date with him and Trudy, hoping that he will become interested in Susan, but Bob is in love with Fred''s sister Joan Harper (Margaret Lindsay), even though they are of different social classes. When Bob attends a boxing match on assignment from the paper, he sees Smudge fighting for a few dollars. Realizing that Smudge is broke, Susan and Bob invite him for Sunday breakfast. Soon Susan and Smudge fall in love. Shortly after, Tom and Trudy marry, as do Susan and Smudge. Joan and Bob date despite her mother''s wishes that she only go out with men of her class. Smudge is fired from his job as a truck driver because there is not enough work and Susan loses her job because she is married. Meanwhile, Tom and Trudy have a baby. Mr. Harper is implicated in a trust failure and kills himself, leaving his family in reduced circumstances. To ensure the financial security of her family, Joan decides to sacrifice her own happiness and set her love for Bob aside to instead accept a proposal from wealthy Stephen Hornblow (Charles Starrett). Completely desperate, Smudge impulsively robs a pawnshop of ten dollars in order to buy food and he is shot running away. Smudge dies, but Bob at least manages to keep his identity out of the papers; Susan returns to her parents. When Joan meets Bob at Tom and Trudy''s, where they have gone to visit the new baby, she tells him that she has changed her mind about Stephen''s proposal since she knows he won''t make her happy. Rather than worry about her family, she will follow her heart and marry Bob.'
'mystery, horror','On a stormy night, a theatrical producer, his secretary, and playwright Prescott Ames are stranded when their car skids off the road and gets stuck. The three take refuge in the nearby home of Dr. Kent, a friend of Ames. One of Kent''s patients, who is staying at the house, is acting strangely, and the others in the house tell the newcomers that she is behaving this way because it is the anniversary of her husband''s murder. At dinner, the group begins exchanging accusations about the murder, when suddenly the lights go out, and soon afterwards comes the first in a series of mysterious and fearful events. The producer thinks all the strange occurrences are part of a ploy to get him to produce a play for Ames. In a great line, one of the other characters exclaims "These fools think we are putting on a play for their benefit!" The usual homespun collection of storm effects, sliding panels, bumps in the night and mysterious prowlings. The standard mixture of comedy and terrors, The Ghost Walks is more competently staged than scripted.'
'comedy','Eadie (Jean Harlow) runs away from her home in Missouri, where her stepfather had her working as a dance partner. On the train, she tells her man-hungry friend Kitty (Patsy Kelly) that she has ideals and plans to marry a somebody so she can accomplish something worthwhile. She lands a job as one of the chorus girls entertaining guests at a party at the mansion of wealthy Frank Cousins (Lewis Stone). There, she manages to see Cousins alone; oddly, he offers her expensive gifts (including an "authentic Cellini" sculpture that he keeps on his desk), but she refuses to accept them until they become engaged. She is surprised when he readily agrees. Unbeknownst to her, guest T.R. Paige (Lionel Barrymore) had just before refused to save Cousins from financial ruin. After Eadie leaves Cousins (with the expensive cufflinks he gave her), he shoots himself. However, the evening isn''t a total waste to Eadie; she becomes acquainted with T.R. when she gets him to retrieve the cufflinks from her stocking before the investigating policeman can ask embarrassing questions. Eadie visits her new friend at his workplace to thank him. When she says she has been fired and that she is determined to marry a rich man, an alarmed T.R. gives her some money and leaves for Palm Beach, Florida. Eadie and Kitty follow and visit T.R.''s office. Eadie is spotted in the waiting room by T.R.''s son Tom (Franchot Tone). Not knowing who he is, Eadie tries to brush him off, but he is very persistent. Eventually, she learns his identity, but remains cool to him, since it becomes clear that he is not interested in marriage. Tom finally manages to get her alone in his bedroom in the Paige mansion, but she defends her virtue and, to his surprise, he lets her go. Tom tells his father that he wants to marry Eadie, despite her disreputable past. T.R. gives his blessing, but after Tom leaves, calls the district attorney. Tom tells Eadie they are going to get married. After he leaves however, a man sneaks into her apartment. Some photographers catch her in the stranger''s arms and the district attorney accuses her of stealing Cousins'' jewelry and jails her. When Tom and his father come to see her, she tells Tom that T.R. must have framed her, but Tom''s father is much more persuasive and Tom breaks up with Eadie. Tom''s rival, the married Charlie Turner, bails Eadie out. For revenge, she sneaks into T.R.''s stateroom on the liner he and Tom are taking to London. She emerges unexpectedly, clad only in lingerie, and embraces a surprised T.R just as photographers take his picture. Having been disillusioned, Eadie gets drunk and turns to Charlie Turner. However, Kitty keeps them from being alone together as long as she can. Tom arrives just in time, having changed his mind, and puts Eadie in the shower to sober up. T.R. follows. To save his reputation, he has told the press she was innocent of the theft and that she was married to Tom. He is also impressed by her fighting spirit. A quick wedding is arranged on the spot.'
'comedy','Larry Haines (Edward J. Nugent) is the school''s track champion. The “Big Man on Campus”, his success goes straight to his head. His friends, Spec Early (Sterling Holloway), Bobby Barnes (Arthur Lake), and his girlfriend Gwen (Mary Carlisle), get fed up with him, and his swollen head. They decide that he needs to get his big head deflated; so, they rig the “Joe Senior” college contest, so Larry comes in second. They make sure Don Cooper (Lon Chaney Jr.) wins; and, he begins to go out with Gwen, much to the dismay of his own steady girlfriend Mary (Gigi Parrish). It soon becomes clear that Mary''s not the only thing Don''s forgotten about. It looks like both Don and Larry are in such a muddle they, and, their school, are going to lose the track meet. Once again, it''s up to the girls to sort out the mess, and spur them on to victory.'
'drama','An ambitious chorus girl marries an up-and-coming composer.'
'mystery','During a masked party Stephen Kester (Claude Gillingwater) is found dead in the closet of his room, three stab wounds in his back. Suspicion falls on everyone at the party, especially Kester''s granddaughter Jean (Shirley Grey) and her fiancé Cliff Miller (William Bakewell), who fled the house after disabling all of the other cars and cutting the phone lines. As Inspector Crofton (John Wray) and Detective Regan (Ben Hendricks Jr.) investigate they are shadowed and helped along by a mystery writer, Bill Tracy (Charles Starrett).'
'sports','Belford College''s football team is so bad, unscrupulous benefactor Howard Smith recruits a jailed thief, Tommy "Cherub" Burke, after seeing him play with a football in the prison yard. Tommy''s parole is arranged. He joins the team, alienating other students with his behavior so much that Jane Thurston from the registrar''s office takes a personal interest, unaware of his criminal history. The team wins every game but Tommy gets restless and wants to join a gang. Smith persuades him to rob the jewels of a rich couple, Mr. and Mrs. Fields, and split the loot. Tommy commits the theft but gets a guilty conscience after being bribed to lose the team''s final game. He returns the stolen gems and gets back to campus in time to lead Belford to one final triumph.'
'comedy, musical','Joan Bradford is a society heiress who rebels against her mother''s choice of a future husband by masquerading as a working class girl and dating a window washer.'
'drama','Olga (Aline MacMahon) runs an isolated gas station and restaurant in the stifling hot desert somewhere in the American Southwest with her discontented younger sister Myra (Ann Dvorak). The sisters clash when Olga forbids Myra from going to a dance with her boyfriend Steve. That same day, chance sends Olga an unexpected and unwelcome customer, ex-boyfriend George (Preston Foster). Unbeknownst to her, George and his nervous partner Jeff (Lyle Talbot) are on the run from the police after a botched robbery that left two men dead, killed by George. Initially intent on sneaking across the border to Mexico, George decides to stay awhile when two jewelry-laden, wealthy divorcees, "Feathers" Tifton (Glenda Farrell) and "Tinkle" Ashton-Ashley (Ruth Donnelly), are stranded there for the night by their long-suffering chauffeur Frank (Frank McHugh). Frank pretends there is something wrong with their car so he can have a rest from driving. Olga, the mechanic, plays along. When Mrs. Ashton-Ashley becomes worried about a large Mexican family spending the night nearby, Olga offers to store the women''s valuables in her safe. George manipulates Olga''s feelings, reviving the love she once felt for him. Though she knows better and tries to resist, she eventually succumbs to his charms, and they sleep together. This gives Myra the opportunity to sneak away to meet Steve. Myra returns later that night, terribly upset after having been taken advantage of by Steve. When Olga starts berating her for going off with her boyfriend, she responds by revealing she saw George leaving Olga''s bedroom. The two miserable women then comfort each other. Meanwhile, George orders Jeff to open the safe. Jeff is reluctant to cause trouble for Olga, but gives in when George pulls out his gun. Olga overhears George say he slept with her just to set up the theft. She gets her pistol and shoots him. As he lays dying, he apologizes to her. Olga lets Jeff go.'
'comedy, romance','Riveter "Chesty" O''Conner (James Cagney) and his best friend, "Droopy" (Frank McHugh), join the US Navy to annoy O''Connor''s nemesis, Chief Petty Officer "Biff" Martin (Pat O''Brien). O''Conner gets himself court-martialled for being AWOL while visiting Martin''s sister Dorothy (Gloria Stuart). Disgruntled at his treatment, O''Connor angrily derides the Navy and finds himself ostracized by his fellow sailors. During gunnery practice, O''Conner helps put out a fire in a gun room and receives the Navy Cross medal, but is still determined to get out of the Navy. Later. O''Conner transfers to the US Naval Air Service and is assigned to the rigid airship USS Macon. When the Macon tries to dock, Martin is accidentally caught on a guide rope and is hoisted into the air. [Note 1] Despite orders, O''Conner climbs down the rope and saves Martin''s life by parachuting both of them to the ground. Later, at the wedding of O''Conner to Dorothy, Martin finds out that O''Conner has been promoted to boatswain and now outranks him.'
'crime drama','Newspaper editor Brad (Paul Muni) learns that the head of the governor''s investigating committee, Frank J. Canfield, has disappeared, along with a large sum of money. He refuses to print the story on the front page of the newspaper, because there is no proof that Canfield, an honest and prominent lawyer, fled with the missing funds. When every other newspaper in the city features the story, the newspaper''s owner, Graham (Berton Churchill), reprimands Brad for the missing story and fires him. Brad says that his contract does not allow him to be fired, so Graham decides to make him write the lonely hearts column. Brad is furious, but has no choice but to accept the position. He also decides to keep an eye on the Frank J. Canfield story. The current writer of the column, Gerry (Glenda Farrell), who herself was demoted to the position by Brad, is delighted by the news. When Gerry accuses him of having no guts because he cannot handle the job, Brad puts his skills to work, and the column becomes very popular. One day, Rosa Marinello comes to the newspaper''s office, looking for Nellie Nelson, Brad''s pseudonym for the column. She ask Nellie to intervene on her behalf, because her undertaker father no longer wants her to marry her fiancé. When Brad learns that Canfield was last seen at the same address where Rosa lives, he agrees to go. Brad finds out that gangster Brownell (Robert Barrat) attended a funeral around the time of Canfield''s disappearance. Brad later discovers that Canfield was framed and murdered by his rival. Brad advises Brownell to dig up Canfield''s body and transfer it to another grave, and gets a photograph of the body and takes it to his newspaper. Brownell is arrested and tried for murder. Canfield is cleared, and Brad is reinstated as the newspaper''s editor.'
'comedy, drama','A womanizing racketeer (Montgomery) is wounded by police and hides out in a farmhouse, where he falls in love with a country girl (O''Sullivan) and meets her wholesome family.'
'comedy','Todd stars as Amelia Frisby, the owner of a beauty supply business. Andy Williams (Wheeler) and Dr. Bob Dudley (Woolsey) convince her to hire them as salesman to promote her new flavored lipstick, and hilarity ensues. The film features Etting singing "Keep Romance Alive" and Bert Wheeler and Dorothy Lee singing "Keep On Doin'' What You''re Doin''" by Bert Kalmar and Harry Ruby.'
'comedy, musical','Jungle movie star "Schnarzan" (Durante), a character in parody of Tarzan, is advised by his manager he needs new lions for his pictures, as his old ones are "worn out". At a wild Hollywood party with many varied guests, including a "lion provider", hilarity ensues. After it all gets out of hand, Schnarzan awakens to find he is just plain old Durante, who had a strange dream.[3]'
'biography','In 1780 in Frankfort, Prussia, youngster Nathan Rothschild warns his parents Amschel and Guttle that the taxman is coming. They hurry and hide their wealth, including currency, silver, etc. The taxman demands 20,000 gulden, an exorbitant sum, but accepts a bribe of 5000 in exchange for assessing 2000 in taxes. Nathan''s satisfaction is short-lived, however; a courier bringing him 10,000 gulden is intercepted and the money confiscated by the taxmen. Nathan tells his sons that he tries to be as honest as possible, but the antisemitic authorities will not let him; he admonishes his children to acquire money, for "money is power" and a defense for their people. Later, as Mayer Rothschild is lying on his deathbed, he instructs his five sons to start banks in different countries across Europe: Amschel in Frankfort, Salomon Mayer von Rothschild in Vienna, Nathan in London, Carl in Rome, and James in Paris. That way, they can avoid having to send gold back and forth as the need arises, for in war they are in danger of being robbed by the enemy and in peace by their own countrymen. Instead, they can draw on each other''s banks. Thirty-two years later, the sons have established banking houses. Then France overruns Europe in the Napoleonic Wars. Austrian Prince Metternich asks Salomon to raise 15 million florins to help defeat Napoleon. The other brothers are approached with similar requests. Even in France itself, Talleyrand asks for 50 million francs. Nathan refuses to loan the British Government five million pounds (on top of previous loans) to hold off the enemy, but offers the Duke of Wellington twice that amount to smash him. After the war is won, Wellington is disappointed to find that Nathan Rothschild has not even been invited to a party in the duke''s honour. He insists on going to see Nathan. His aide, Captain Fitzroy, knows the address, as he is in love with Nathan''s daughter, Julie, and vice versa. While there, Wellington tells Nathan that the victorious powers are going to make a very large loan to France to help it recover from the war. The winning underwriter will become the most powerful and prestigious bank in Europe. Nathan''s bid is the best, but is rejected in favor primarily of Barings Bank. When Nathan demands to know the reason, Prussian Count Ledrantz (despite having himself sought a war loan from the Rothschilds) explains it was discarded on a "technicality", because Nathan is a Jew. Nathan surmises that the quarter of the loan not awarded to Barings will fall to Ledrantz, Metternich and Talleyrand, who stand to make enormous profits. Nathan outmanoeuvres them financially, bringing them to the brink of ruin and dishonour; they capitulate and surrender to him the entire loan. However, this has somewhat embittered him. Where once he accepted Julie''s choice, he now tells the non-Jewish Fitzroy to stay away from her. Anti-Jewish riots break out all over Prussia, instigated by Ledrantz. Nathan returns to Frankfort and, under pressure from his own people, agrees to submit to Ledrantz. However, before he can, he receives word that Napoleon has escaped from exile. Nathan''s brothers, fearful of their positions, want to support the restored French dictator. However, Nathan refuses to do so. With Ledrantz and others once again desperately in need of financial support, he extracts a treaty from them granting Jews rights, freedoms and dignity long denied them. He also tells Fitzroy that he can once again see Julie. With Napoleon seemingly invincible, Nathan determines to risk all in support of the allies. Just before he is bankrupted, he receives word that Wellington has won the Battle of Waterloo, and he is not only saved, he becomes the richest man in the world and a baron.'
'drama','Nan Reynolds (Ann Dvorak) struggles to run the household on her meek husband Bill''s (George Brent) meager salary as an office manager. She urges him to apply for better jobs elsewhere, but he is disinclined to take risks, and his lack of ambition is placing a strain on their marriage. Pat Berkeley (Bette Davis), who attended high school with Nan and Bill, is hired by his firm as an advertising copywriter, and her success prompts Nan to coerce her husband into asserting himself with his boss. When he fails to spark any interest with his ideas, Bill succumbs to his wife''s suggestion that he start his own agency using the money she has managed to save. Spurred by Nan, he steals a major client from his former firm and hires Pat to help him handle it. Complications arise when the feelings the two had for each other years before are reignited and they embark upon an affair. Nan becomes aware of their relationship but chooses to ignore it. Bill announces he wants a divorce. When Nan refuses to grant him one, he angrily leaves the house and accidentally hits their son Buddy (Ronnie Cosby) with the car, seriously injuring him. Months pass, Buddy recovers, and Bill and Nan''s divorce is in its final stages. Hearing Nan''s court testimony, Bill realizes how good she is as a wife and mother and how much he loves and needs her, and the two decide to reconcile.'
'drama, crime','Ricardo Cortez plays a jewel dealer who hopes to provoke, and catch, an international jewel thief, so he transports the famous Karenina diamonds from Paris across Europe to Istanbul on the Orient Express, along with a trainload of suspicious characters.'
'comedy, romance','Switchboard operator Marie Lawson (Joan Blondell) is conned by admirer Nicky (Gordon Westcott), who tells her it is just a practical joke, into redirecting a phone call. However, Nicky uses what he learns to his own benefit, costing the intended recipient a lot of money. When the victim complains to Marie''s boss, telephone repairmen Terry Riley (Pat O''Brien) and John (Allen Jenkins) are called in to see if the phone was tapped. When it is found not to be, Marie loses her job. Terry is attracted to Marie and eventually talks her into a date. He also gets her hired by businessman John P. Schuyler (Henry O''Neill), whom he had earlier saved from a live electrical wire. When Marie runs into Nicky later, she lets slip that her new employer is expecting a delivery of $90,000 in bonds. As a result, Nicky is able to fool the courier into thinking he is Schuyler and giving him the bonds while Marie is distracted by a flood of calls from his accomplices. When she realizes what has happened, she goes looking for Nicky, but this only serves to make her look guilty. Terry is questioned by the police and then released so he can lead them to her hiding place. It works and she is arrested. When an expensive lawyer shows up on her behalf, Terry becomes suspicious and taps his line with John''s reluctant help. Finally, he is able to trace a call to where Nicky and his gang are hiding out. When he goes there, he is easily caught and placed in a bedroom after the phone is ripped out. However, he is not searched. He hooks up a spare phone he has and is able to contact John to bring help. The crooks are captured. Terry and Marie get married, but on their wedding night, many of Terry''s co-workers show up to "repair" their phone.'
'drama','White widow Bea Pullman (Claudette Colbert) and her toddler daughter Jessie (Juanita Quigley), take in black housekeeper Delilah Johnson (Louise Beavers) and her daughter Peola (Sebie Hendricks), whose fair complexion conceals her mixed-race ancestry. Bea exchanges room and board for work, although struggling to make ends meet. Delilah and Peola quickly become like family to Jessie and Bea. They particularly enjoy Delilah''s pancakes, made from a special family recipe. Bea finds it difficult to make a living selling maple syrup, as her husband had done. Using her wiles to get a storefront on the busy Atlantic City boardwalk refurbished for practically nothing, she opens a pancake restaurant, where Delilah cooks in the front window. Five years later, Bea makes her last payment to the furniture man and is debt-free. Jessie (Marilyn Knowlden) and Peola (Dorothy Black) have proven to be challenging children to raise: Jessie is demanding, not particularly studious, relying instead on her charm. She is the first person to call Peola "black" in a hurtful way, hinting that their childhood idyll is doomed. Peola does not tell her classmates at school that she is "colored" and is humiliated when her mother shows up one day, revealing her secret. Later, at the suggestion of a passerby, Elmer Smith (Ned Sparks), Bea sets up an even more successful pancake flour corporation, marketing Delilah as an Aunt Jemima-like product mascot. She offers Delilah a 20% interest in her family recipe, but childlike, Delilah refuses and continues to act as Bea''s housekeeper and factotum, the shares held presumably in trust. Bea becomes wealthy from her business. Ten years later, the two older women are confronted with problems. Eighteen-year-old Jessie (Rochelle Hudson), home on college vacation, falls in love with her mother''s boyfriend, Stephen Archer (Warren William), who is unaware at first of her affections. Meanwhile, Peola (Fredi Washington), seeking more opportunities in the segregated society, passes as white, identifying with her European ancestry and breaking Delilah''s heart. Leaving her Negro college, Peola takes a job as a cashier in a whites only restaurant. When her mother and Bea track her down, she is humiliated to be identified as black. She finally tells her mother that she is going away, never to return, so she can pass as a white woman without the fear that Delilah will show up. Her mother is heartbroken and takes to her bed, murmuring Peola''s name and forgiving her before eventually succumbing to heartbreak. The black servants sing a spiritual as she dies, with Bea holding her hand at the end. Delilah''s last wish had been for a large, grand funeral, complete with a marching band and a horse-drawn hearse. Bea sees to it that Delilah is given the funeral she wished for, and, just before the processional begins, a remorseful, crying Peola appears, begging her dead mother to forgive her. Peola returns to her Negro college and presumably embraces her African descent. Bea breaks her engagement with Stephen, not wanting to hurt her daughter''s feelings by being with him, but promises to find him after Jessie is over her infatuation with him. Ultimately, Bea embraces Jessie, remembering the girl''s insistent demands for her toy duck (her "quack quack") when she was a toddler.'
'western','A cowboy named Kentucky Ken (Ken Maynard) and his sidekick, Cactus (George "Gabby" Hayes), meet a beautiful woman named Lila Miller (Evalyn Knapp) when her car accidentally goes off the road. Lila''s father, Charlie Miller (H. B. Warner), owns the dude ranch where Ken and Cactus intend to enter their prize horse Tarzan in a gruelling canyon race. Two other men, Chandler and Tracy, have also arrived for the race. They are also plotting to blackmail Charlie, who has a secret criminal past, for half of his gold mine and ranch operation earnings. Chandler also hopes that his blackmail scheme will force Charlie into granting him permission to marry Lila, who is showing a definite interest in Ken. Charlie refuses to be bullied, however, and claims he was innocent of the crime. Before the race, Chandler and Tracy trick the gambling-prone Cactus into a wager in which Tarzan will be the prize if Ken loses the race. To assure their victory, Tracy sets up a trip-wire on the course, which injures Tarzan and allows Tracy to win the race. After he discovers the broken wire and suspects foul play, Ken refuses to give up his horse to Chandler. Shamed by his foolish behavior, Cactus vows to identify the saboteur, whose boot prints he discovers in the ground near the wire. Meanwhile, Tracy double-crosses Chandler by robbing the ranch stagecoach carrying a shipment of Charlie''s gold. During the robbery, the driver is killed. Ken, who is trying to catch the bandits, is jailed for the crime after Tracy implicates him to the sheriff. With the help of Cactus and Tarzan, Ken escapes from jail and arrives at the ranch just as Chandler shoots Tracy. Again, Ken is suspected of the killing. After Cactus arrives with proof that Tracy''s boots match the prints found on the racecourse, Ken tricks Chandler into a confession by claiming he possesses a damning note left by Tracy. The sheriff reveals to Chandler that Charlie came to him about the blackmail attempt and that, unknown to Chandler, whose real name is Monte Korber, Charlie had been pardoned of the earlier crime years before. With his reputation at last clear, Ken is free to court Lila, who has always loved him.'
'comedy, romance','Spoiled heiress Ellen "Ellie" Andrews has eloped with pilot and fortune-hunter King Westley against the wishes of her extremely wealthy father, Alexander Andrews. Andrews wants to have the marriage annulled because he knows Westley is really only interested in her money. Jumping ship in Florida, she runs away and boards a Greyhound bus to New York City to reunite with her husband. She meets fellow bus passenger Peter Warne, a freshly out-of-work newspaper reporter. Soon Warne recognizes her and gives her a choice: If she will give him an exclusive on her story, he will help her reunite with Westley. If not, he will tell her father where she is. Ellie agrees to the first choice. As they go through several adventures together, Ellie loses her initial disdain for him and begins to fall in love. When they have to hitchhike, they fail to secure a ride until Ellie displays a shapely leg to Danker, the next driver. When they stop en route, Danker tries to steal their luggage but Peter chases him down and seizes his Model T. Nearing the end of their journey, Ellie confesses her love to Peter. When the owners of the motel in which they are staying notice that Peter''s car is gone, they expel Ellie. Believing Peter has deserted her, Ellie telephones her father, who agrees to let her marry Westley. Meanwhile, Peter has obtained money from his editor to marry Ellie, but he misses her on the road. Although Ellie has no desire to be with Westley, she believes Peter has betrayed her for the reward money and agrees to have a second, formal wedding. On the wedding day, she finally reveals the whole story to her father. When Peter comes to Ellie''s home, Andrews offers him the reward money, but Peter insists on being paid only his expenses: a paltry $39.60 for items he had had to sell to buy gasoline. When Ellie''s father presses him for an explanation of his odd behavior and demands to know if he loves her, Peter first tries to dodge the questions, but then admits he loves Ellie and storms out. Westley arrives for his wedding via autogyro; but at the ceremony, Andrews reveals to his daughter Peter''s refusal of the reward money, and tells her that her car is waiting by the back gate in case she changes her mind about going through with the wedding. Ellie dumps King Westley at the altar and bolts for her car, driving away as the newsreel cameras crank. A few days later, Andrews is working at his desk when King Westley calls to tell him he is taking the financial settlement he was offered and won''t contest the annulment. His executive assistant brings him a telegram from Peter, which says, "What''s holding up the annulment, you slowpoke? The walls of Jericho are toppling!", referring to a makeshift wall made of a blanket over a wire tied across the rooms they slept in between them to give them privacy. With the annulment in hand, Andrews sends the reply, "Let ''em topple." In the last scene, we see Peter''s battered Model T parked in a motor court in Glen Falls, Michigan. The mom and pop owners of the motor court talk, wondering why on such a warm night the newlyweds – he had seen the marriage license – wanted a clothesline, an extra blanket, and the little tin trumpet he had gotten for them. As they look at the cabin, the toy trumpet sounds a fanfare, the blanket falls to the floor, and the lights in the cabin go out.'
'comedy','After he inherits some money, Harold Bissonette (mispronounced by his pompous wife as "biss-on-ay") decides to give up the grocery business, move to California and run an orange grove. Despite his family''s objections and the news that the land he bought is worthless, Bissonette packs up and drives out to California with his nagging wife Amelia (Kathleen Howard), self-involved daughter Mildred (Jean Rouverol) and bothersome son Norman (Tommy Bupp). As they pass several prosperous orange groves, his wife softens and figures he made a good purchase. The information about the orange grove is confirmed: his barren plot contains only a tumbledown shack, and a tumbleweed. Disgusted, his wife and family are walking out on him. As he sits down on the car''s running board, the car collapses under his weight. However, just when Harold is about to lose all hope, his luck takes a dramatic turn: a neighbor informs him that a developer is desperate to acquire his land in order to build a grandstand for a race track. Finally standing up for himself, and to his nagging wife, Harold holds out for a large sum of money (including a commission for the friendly neighbor), as well as a demand that the developer buy him an orange grove like the one in the brochure he has been carrying throughout the film. The film ends with Harold sitting at an outdoor breakfast table squeezing orange juice into a glass, while his happy family takes off for a ride in their new car. The now-contented Harold pours a flask of booze into the small amount of orange juice in the glass. The film is a chronicle of the " many titanic struggles between Harold Bissonnette and the universe. There will be battle of wills between father and daughter, between male and female, between man and a variety of uncontrollable objects."[3] The plot is almost secondary to the series of routines which make up the film. Over the course of the picture, Harold fails to prevent a blind customer (and Baby LeRoy) from turning his store into a disaster area; attempts to share a bathroom mirror with his self-centered, high-pitched gargling daughter; has a destructive picnic on private property; and in the film''s lengthy centerpiece, is driven to sleep on the porch by his haranguing wife, and is kept awake all night by neighbors (including further trouble with the mother of the baby who caused damage in his grocery store), salesmen, and assorted noises and calamities. A well-known, and often somewhat misquoted Fields comment occurs at the climax of the film, as Harold is haggling with the developer, who angrily claims that Harold is drunk. Harold responds, "Yeah, and you''re crazy; and I''ll be sober tomorrow and ... you''ll be crazy for the rest of your life!" The windfall for Fields'' character and the resultant happy ending of this film echo the climax of his earlier 1934 release, Man on the Flying Trapeze.'
'drama','An insanely jealous boxer murders his manager when he finds him alone with his fiancee, but she is the one charged with the crime by the police.[1]'
'comedy, drama','The unscrupulous Jimmy Corrigan (James Cagney), runs an agency that searches for heirs of those who have died without leaving a will, and often provides phony claimants in order to collect his fee. When his former girlfriend Joan Martin (Bette Davis), who left him to due his lack of ethics, accepts a position at the allegedly legitimate firm owned by Charles Wallingham (Alan Dinehart), Corrigan investigates Wallingham''s background and discovers his rival is even more duplicitous than he is. He exposes Wallingham as a phony and promises to go straight if Joan will come back to him.'
'drama','Francoise is a jealous wife who spies on her playwright husband, Paul, one evening after a play and overhears him and his lover Odette, the star of the show, quarreling in the street about him leaving his wife. He protests because he does not want to hurt his wife. Paul comes home at 3am and finds that Francoise has waited up for him. Unbeknownst to him, she is distressed at the news and pretends that she knows nothing of the affair. She attempts to seduce him but fails. The more he tries to tell her that he''s leaving her, she becomes increasingly agitated, speaking more rapidly as she backs out the door and leaves him alone in the bedroom. The next morning, Francoise sees a lawyer to find out how she can keep Paul from divorcing her and learns that there is nothing legally she can do to compel him to stay. That night at the theater, Paul tries to tell Odette why he was not able to tell Francoise he is leaving her. She is upset as he has promised and failed at this before. He promises to leave Francoise that night and Odette tells him that she will not kiss him again until he has left. Later during the rehearsel, a shot rings and Odette falls to the floor dead. The police are summoned and arrest Castelli, a man who had robbed a bank and killed a teller earlier that day and hid in the theater. However, he swears that he does not know Odette and he did not kill her. As Paul leaves the theater, he finds his own gun tossed into a fire bucket full of water and immediately knows that his wife committed the murder. Later that evening, he confronts her and calls her a fiend. She tells him that she intends not to say anything and at first he threatens to turn her in to the police. Instead he tells her that he will stay and keep her secret to watch her fall apart. Over the months, Françoise becomes weighted down by her guilt. When she learns that Castelli has been sentenced to death for the murder of Odette, she goes to the district attorney and asks for permission to see the condemned man. Her request is granted and she confesses to him that she murdered Odette. He tells her that she should go away and to never mention it again, he would have been executed for killing the bank teller anyway. Six month later Paul tells Francoise that she is the only person suffering more than him but as long as she won''t confess, she will continue to die inside. Later, Paul tells her that she is the only person who can help herself. She then decides to turn herself in for the murder. Paul says that he will stand by her throughout her upcoming ordeal. On her way to the attorney general''s office, she saves a boy from being killed by a truck, but she gets hit instead and sustains a critical head injury. The doctor tells Paul that while Francoise will live, she has lost her memory of her entire life and how to do basic functions such as feeding herself, their names and her entire life history. This includes her murder and subsequent guilt. Paul takes Francoise to the south of France and helps her recuperate, as he is convinced that this is God''s plan.'
'comedy','Judge Priest is an eccentric judge in a small Kentucky town. Although his wife died 19 years before the film takes place, he shows no interest in remarrying. He sometimes stumbles his words, but he shows his wit throughout the film. The judge, despite all his talk of being a Confederate veteran, finds his best friend to be the black Jeff Poindexter, portrayed by Stepin Fetchit. Judge Priest has pride in his tolerance for others.'
'comedy, romance','Rosie Sturges (Joan Blondell) is a Kansas City manicurist, who has a gangster boyfriend name Dynamite Carson (Robert Armstrong). Rosie''s friend Marie Callahan (Glenda Farrell) a fellow manicurist and roommate, urges Rosie to drop Dynamite and go after the three things a girl really needs "money, fur and diamonds". While Dynamite is away on business, Rosie goes on a date with a customer, Jimmy the Duke (Gordon Westcott) and he steals the diamond engagement ring Dynamite gave to Rosie. Fearing Dynamite''s anger, Rosie and Marie travel by train to New York and disguises themselves as Girl Scouts of America. In New York, Rosie and Marie meet two businessmen, Samuel Warren (Hobart Cavanaugh) and Jim Cameron (T. Roy Barnes) and follow them on board a ship bound for Paris. Rosie and Marie persuade the two men into paying for their ship fares and also buying them new clothes. Dynamite, who has followed the women to New York and on board the ship, is hiding in the stateroom of millionaire Junior Ashcraft (Hugh Herbert). Junior has hired detective Marcel Duryea (Osgood Perkins) to investigate his wife, who is having an affair in Paris with Dr. Sascha Pilnakoff (Ivan Lebedeff). Rosie and Marie learn that a millionaire is on board the ship, and they pose as French manicurists to enter his room. When Dynamite exposes them, they fall into hysterics. Junior decides to give them a check to calm them down, and repay Samuel and Jim for the fare. In Paris, Marcel reports to Junior, and Rosie agrees to pose as Dr. Sascha''s lover to make Junior''s wife jealous. Marcel, who is in league with Junior''s wife, double-crosses him. However, instead of his wife finding Rosie with Dr. Sascha, she finds Junior with Marie instead. Junior decides to get a divorce and marry Marie and Rosie promised Dynamite to return to Kansas City with him.'
'drama','Captain Bill Tennant (William Powell) is a British officer stationed in Dublin in 1920. Tennant has a history with Norah, the wife of his friend, British intelligence officer Captain Andrew Kerr. Tennant''s first assignment is to capture a notorious Sinn Féin member, Peadar Conlan. His first attempt is a failure, and Kerr is ordered to relieve Tennant overnight. Norah is frightened by his assignment and begs him not to go. After Kerr leaves, we see a flashback to when Tennant and Norah were involved, several years before. Kerr leads the search for Conlan. He finds and captures him. When he arrives home very late, Norah is still up, and still dressed. Tennant is also there and insists they must tell Kerr. Tennant leaves and Norah tries to explain that there was always someone else between them, and that someone was Tennant. Kerr rushes out, despite her pleadings that he''ll be killed. Tennant sees him leave and goes after him. Conlan is sentenced to hang by the British military. Shortly after, Kerr is spotted and followed. He''s captured by an angry mob. When Tennant arrives at the military post the next morning, he finds Norah waiting there for news of her husband. She tells him that she no longer loves him, that he''s "three years too late". A messenger arrives from Sinn Féin. He claims to be a peacemaker, and tells the general Kerr will be released if Conlan is. But the general tells him Conlan will be hanged at 6:00 a.m. the next morning. Norah begs the general to comply, but the general refuses. Tennant tries to bargain for Kerr''s life, but is told nothing will do except the release of Conlan. He returns to HQ and, against orders, goes into the general''s office, breaks into his desk, and forges a release for Conlan. Kerr is also released. The next morning the crowd celebrates Conlan''s release. Tennant''s forgery is discovered, and Kerr is distressed to find his friend has committed career suicide to free him. In their final meeting, Tennant tells Kerr that Norah''s seeing Tennant again, coupled with Kerr''s disappearance, has caused the scales to fall from her eyes, and caused her to realize she really loves her husband.'
'comedy, musical','In New York City, 1934, jazz singer Dot Clark and her shady gangster boyfriend, Louie The Lug ("An Earful of Music"), are introduced. After having an affair with the deceased Professor Edward Wilson, Dot is now technically his common-law wife and heiress to $77 million. She has to go to Egypt to claim the money, and sets off with Louie in hopes of getting the cash. Former assistant to Edward Wilson, Gerald Lane, informs the law offices of Benton, Loring, and Slade of Professor Wilson''s death and the fact that Edward''s son, Eddie Wilson, Jr, is the rightful heir to the money. Mr. Slade, the lawyer, goes to a barge in Brooklyn where Eddie is living with his adopted father, Pops, an old stevedore, and his three sons, Oscar, Adolph, and Herman, who roughhouse Eddie. However, Eddie is managing to live a nice life nonetheless, with his girlfriend, Nora ''Toots'', and his care for all the kids on the barge. He dreams of the day when he will have enough money to live his own life outside of the dirty barge ("When My Ship Comes In"). Moments later, Eddie is informed that he has inherited the $77 million and boards a ship bound for Egypt to claim the money. Aboard the ship is Colonel Henry Larrabee, a gentleman from Virginia who sponsored Eddie, Sr''s exploration endeavors and wants a share of the money, as well. Eddie befriends his beautiful niece, Joan, and Dot and Louie realize that they are not the only ones traveling to Egypt. In an elaborate scheme to trick Eddie into signing over the inheritance, Dot disguises herself as Eddie''s mother and almost succeeds in duping him, but Louie ruins the plan at the last minute. Meanwhile, Gerald Lane has boarded the ship and he is revealed to be in love with Joan Larrabee. In the ship''s bar, the Colonel, Gerald, and Louie realize they are all traveling for the same reason, and Gerald calls Colonel Larrabee a liar. Joan overhears and becomes angry with him, much to Jerry''s dismay. Louie tries to get Eddie to hand over the cash by trying to bump him off by pushing him off the ship''s deck in a wheelchair. The duo thinks they have succeeded in getting rid of Eddie, but they are foiled again. Eddie tries to help Jerry win back Joan, and suggests they rehearse a number for the ship''s concert the next evening. They rehearse ("Your Head On My Shoulder"), but Joan is still frosty toward him. At the ship''s concert, Jerry, Eddie, Dot, Joan, and members of the chorus perform a big minstrel show number featuring a specialty tap by the Nicholas Brothers ("Mandy N'' Me"). The ship lands in Alexandria, Egypt, and Joan is still angry with Jerry. Eddie, still convinced that Dot is his mother and Louie is his uncle, wants to see a magician performing at the ship''s port. When the magician taunts Louie and calls him a coward, Louie gets in the magic basket and ends up getting beaten by Egyptian slaves. Eddie chases a little dog running through the marketplace and lands literally in the lap of the sheikh''s daughter, Princess Fanya, who falls instantly in love with Eddie. She forces him to come with her back to the palace, where Eddie meets her father, Sheikh Mulhulla, and her fiancé, Ben Ali, who is extremely jealous. Fanya hyperbolizes the encounter with the dog, saying that Eddie saved her from a lion''s attack instead of a puppy. Eddie then is invited to stay at the palace, much to Fanya''s delight. However, soon Sheikh Mulhulla learns of the Americans being in Egypt who have come to take the $77 million treasure that he believes is rightfully his. He tells Eddie about this and Eddie begins to worry about his mother and his uncle, along with the others. In a comical scene, the sheikh and Eddie smoke a hookah pipe and the sheikh tells him of the affair he is having with a famous dancer who lives in the village. The harem women try to seduce Eddie, but he is steadfast to remain faithful to Nora ''Toots'' ("Okay Toots"). Princess Fanya has a plot to get Eddie to marry her, and she tells her father that Eddie kissed her on the camel when they first met. The sheikh then decrees that Eddie must marry Fanya or die, and has him suspended over a large bowl of soup. Eddie then agrees to marry Fanya, and is kept in a room on a dog collar until the next morning, when Ben Ali comes in with a gun in a jealous rage. Eddie convinces Ben Ali that he does not want to marry Fanya, and Ben Ali is convinced and lets him go. However, Joan, Jerry, the Colonel, Dot, and Louie arrive at the palace and are immediately accosted by the guards. In the tomb, Eddie and the men disguise themselves as the spirits of the sheikh''s ancestors and tell him to let the Americans go free. The sheikh is so scared by the prophecies, he agrees to let them go on one condition: Eddie will never be able to see Fanya ever again. He agrees and boards a plane home to New York City, where he uses the inheritance to open a free ice cream factory with Toots, thus realizing their lifelong dream ("Ice Cream Fantasy Finale").'
'comedy','James W. Kelly (Guy Robertson) and his pal Happy Moran (Edgar Kennedy) are taking their all-girl-dancing troupe across the ocean to tour Europe, when Kelly and the mysterious Catherine Bell (Irene Ware), fall for each other, literally. When their backers pull out, Happy and Kelly manage to scrounge enough dough to get the girls back home; but, find themselves broke, in Europe, in a tiny country where the GDP is measured in mops. As a crooner, Kelly tries to sell enough mops, with a radio show, to pull the kingdom out of bankruptcy, and win Princess Tania, aka Catherine Bell, from their shipboard romance. Time is running out, as Prince Alexis, (William Orlamond), invades, from the neighbouring country, to seize the castle and marry the Princess. Their only defence is the women and their “Personality Mops”, when the army quits, over back wages; and, Kelly is being marched off in front of a firing squad.'
'comedy','The switchboard operator Anna Mirelle (Frances Drake) in an apartment building falls in love with businessman Julian De Lussac (Cary Grant), who lives in the building, whom she has gotten to know only over the phone. When she discovers that the man''s current girlfriend Marguerite (Rosita Moreno) is actually part of a scheme to swindle him out of an option of a nitrate mine concession in Chile he bought, she devises a plot to save him and expose the con artist, Marguerite''s husband Ramon Cintos (Rafael Corio). De Lussac''s friend Paul Vernet (Edward Everett Horton), who is in love with millionaire''s daughter Susie Flamberg (Nydia Westman), has to face a great jealous rage, as Susie has fallen in love with De Lussac and has brought in her father to force him into marrying her. He will come out of it by giving Vernet a lesson on how he should act with Susie to impress her. De Lussac gets rid of Marguerite and ends up with Anna.'
'comedy, drama','Alabam Lee (Carole Lombard) is given a suspended sentence by Judge Daly (Walter Connolly). To help improve her image, her publicist Front O''Malley (Raymond Walburn) comes up with the zany idea of "adopting" a mother. Her manager, Charlie Kendall (Arthur Hohl), thinks it is a great idea, so they head off to the nearest old ladies home with newspaper reporters and photographers in tow. There, Alabam recognizes "Patsy" Patterson (May Robson) and chooses her. Patsy, who much prefers living on the street and drinking to her heart''s content, has been unwillingly placed in the home by Judge Daly and lawyer Johnny Mills (Roger Pryor); the latter was asked by his now-deceased father to look after Patsy. Patsy is touched by Alabam''s kind nature, and starts to reform both herself and her new daughter. She curtails her drinking and finds out that Kendall has been skimming off most of Alabam''s nightclub salary; Alabam fires Kendall as a result. Patsy gets in a crap game and wins $7000, which she passes off as an inheritance. The money comes in handy, as Alabam is now out of work. She also gets Alabam to take acting, dancing, and elocution lessons, while she goes to see theatrical producer David Opper (Henry Kolker). It turns out that Patsy was once a star whose success made Opper a lot of money many years ago. Opper reluctantly agrees to give Alabam an audition, but she fails to impress him. When Johnny drops by to see how Patsy is doing in her new surroundings, he meets Alabam and soon falls in love with her. Seeing that he is wealthy, Alabam decides the best way to provide for her now-uncertain future is to extract as much "loan" money as she can from him. When Patsy realizes what her protegee is doing, the two women quarrel, and Patsy walks out of Alabam''s life. Johnny asks Alabam to marry him, then tells her that his mother has promised to disown him and leave him a poor man if they marry. Alabam, who has fallen in love despite herself, is relieved; now nobody will think she is marrying him for his money. After Patsy and Johnny''s mother have been to Judge Daly asking him to stop this relationship, Judge Daly calls Alabam into his office and threatens to unsuspend her sentence, but she is unfazed. However, when he tells her that Johnny''s career and social standing will be ruined by her past, she gives up. She goes back to Kendall. Patsy, who was initially also opposed to the marriage, changes her mind when she sees that Alabam is really in love. She reveals to Alabam that she was once in the same situation with Johnny''s father. They broke up, but Patsy has regretted it ever since and does not want the younger woman to repeat her mistake. Alabam''s fan dance at the nightclub is interrupted by the police, who take her to Judge Daly''s office, where she is confronted by Daly, Patsy, and Johnny. Alabam gives in and embraces Johnny.'
'drama','Slim Girl is an Indian maiden raised by whites, who call her "Lily." Many members of the Navajo tribe shun her, believing Slim Girl to be leading an improper life, perhaps even as a prostitute. A silversmith, Laughing Boy, is seduced by her. After losing a horse race, he challenges rival Red Man to a wrestling match and wins. This impresses Slim Girl, who expresses her desire for him. She returns to her previous intimate relationship, however, with George Hartshone, a rich rancher. One day, Slim Girl seeks out Laughing Boy, becomes his lover and persuades him to marry her. But when she goes to town to sell his silver goods, Laughing Boy follows and finds her in Hartshone''s arms. He aims a bow and arrow at Hartshone, but ends up killing Slim Girl instead.'
'western','The movie opens with a family shooting from the window of their home, as they are robbed of their cattle. John Tobin (John Wayne) arrives home later that night and discovers his family killed and their cattle missing. Tobin sets out in search of Pandro Zanti (Earl Dwire), the local bandito, for all appearances a stereotypical Mexican outlaw, though the script is twice careful to tell us he is half white and half Apache and only pretends to be Mexican. Zanti plans to kidnap Ruby (Sheila Terry) for his lusty needs. This is an unusual villainous trait for 1930s matinee Westerns, aimed at young audiences who expected villains to be claim jumpers and killers, not rapists. Ruby and her father, Dusty (George "Gabby" Hayes), hightail it out of there before she falls victim of the killer, escaping by a clever ruse (hiding in a large gunny sack) in which Ruby almost that drowns in a river. Tobin, tracking his family''s killers, rescues the sack containing Ruby, and she, Dusty, and Tobin join forces. Sheriff Luke Williams (Jack Rockwell) immediately takes credit for capturing Zanti when Tobin brings him in; he also arrests Tobin for the murder of Dusty, who took a knife in the back and collapsed. Later it is discovered Dusty only received a superficial wound and was knocked out. The sheriff, however, makes a series of mistakes, including handcuffing a bad guy''s boot to a bed, so that all he has to do is take off his boot to escape, especially when Tobin made of point of telling Williams that Zanti can probably get loose. A chase across the desert, partly on foot, ensues, with Tobin going after Zanti. The villain drinks from a desert watering hole, but in his fatigued state he does not see the sign marked "Poison. Do not drink." He dies soon after. With the chief villain now out of the picture, there is more hard riding and shooting, as Ruby and Tobin flee from Zanti''s gang. When the happy ending finally arrives, Tobin becomes the new sheriff, replacing the inept Williams.'
'comedy','Con artist and racetrack tout Wally Brooks hands a lemon drop to a man in a wheelchair, saying it will cure whatever ails him, then persuades the man, a millionaire named Griggsby, to bet $100 on a horse. Wally knows this horse can''t win and intends to pocket the cash. The horse does win, so Wally and his partner Dunhill, alias "The Professor," take it on the lam. Laying low in an out-of-the-way place, Wally meets town drunk Jonas Deering and his beautiful daughter Alice. A love affair blossoms and they marry, but when Alice is about to give birth and having serious medical problems, Wally needs money so he robs Mr. Potter, her boss. Alice dies in childbirth. A despondent Wally shuns his own son, Wally Jr., and isn''t sure where to turn next. The Professor marries longtime girlfriend Maizie and offers to raise Wally Jr., and even better, Griggsby shows up, claiming the lemon drop did help his arthritis. He volunteers to become Wally Jr.''s legal guardian and gives Wally some money, minus what the bet on his horse would have won.'
'comedy','A sailor rescues a young heiress who is apparently drowning. Little does he know she was only pretending to catch the eye of another man.'
'drama, crime','The film starts in a riverfront slum in Limehouse. The Lily Gardens, a local club, is owned by Chinese-American immigrant Harry Young. Young uses the club as a center of operations for his lucrative smuggling operation. Young is a recent arrival in London, but he has managed to take over crime operations in his area. Rival criminal Pug Talbot is increasingly driven out of business. Talbot is wrathful due to the situation, and his anger causes him to abuse his own daughter, Toni. The girl has been raised to be a pickpocket and is under her father''s control. At one point, Toni is about to be arrested, and Young helps her out. She is grateful for his help and grows very fond of him. Talbot alerts the police about one of Young''s operations, in hopes of hurting his rival''s business. Toni overhears the plan and warns Young in time. Young manages to evade the police. Talbot is furious at his treacherous daughter and beats her up. Young finds out about the abuse and vows revenge against Talbot. Young pretends that he wants to negotiate with Talbot, and invites him for a meeting at his apartment. Talbot accepts the offer, unaware that it is a trap. When Talbot arrives from the meeting, Young has him stabbed to death. The corpse is abandoned in the street. Young offers Toni a job at his organization as a "watchdog", in exchange for room and board. Toni takes the offer and gets hired. Young has a Chinese lover, Tu Tuan, that is suspicious over his relationship with Toni. She believes that her lover has fallen in love with the "white girl" and warns him against fruitlessly pursuing her. Worried that a jealous Tu Tuan might hurt Toni, Young removes the pickpocket from his operations. He gives Toni an allowance for her living expenses, which she sees as charity. Away from her life of crime and with free time in her hands, Toni goes sight-seeing in London. She soon befriends pet-shop owner Eric Benton, and starts spending her afternoons with him. Toni and Benton fall in love. Toni starts thinking about getting a job to stop financially depending on Young. Young prevents her from doing so, in fear of losing her. Tu Tuan finds out about Toni''s love life and warns Young about it. Tu Tuan derides Young for his unrequited love for a white woman, before ending her own relationship with him.[1] Toni confesses to Benton about her criminal past. Benton visits The Lily Gardens and asks for an appointment with Young. In response, Young makes arrangements to have Benton killed, in a manner similar to Talbot. Young soon personally goes on a smuggling mission, and has Toni escort him. He is unaware that the police is expecting him this time. A distraught Tu Tuan had betrayed him to the police, before committing suicide. During the mission, Toni finds out about Young''s plans to have Benton killed. She is terrified for the safety of her loved one. By her reaction, Young realizes that Toni really loves the other man. He decides to call off the murder plans, and tries to warn his hired assassins in time. He is pursued by the police while trying to reach them, and gets mortally wounded by gunfire. Young calls off the murder in time, and manages to clear Toni''s name from any involvement in crime. He then dies because of his wounds. Due to Young''s self-sacrifice, Toni and Benton are safe and free to further pursue their relationship.[1]'
'drama','In Germany in the 1930s, a young couple are struggling against poverty. Hans is a small business agent. He is happily married to Emma, whom he affectionately calls ''Lämmchen'' (small lamb). They must keep their marriage a secret in order for Hans to keep his job, as his boss wants him to marry his daughter. Hans loses his job when the truth comes out. They move in with his stepmother in bustling Berlin to find success. Hans gets a small job in a department store. Things are okay until they find out that his stepmother is really a notorious madam and runs an exclusive brothel.'
'drama','The former Jo March (O''Brien-Moore), now married to Prof. Bhaer (Morgan), opens a boarding school for wayward boys.'
'drama','Set in rural 1840s Scotland, the plot focuses on labor and class issues while telling the story of Gavin Dishart, a staid cleric newly assigned to Thrums'' Auld Licht church, and Babbie, a member of the nobility who disguises herself as a gypsy girl in order to interact freely with the local villagers and protect them from her guardian, Lord Rintoul, who wants to keep them under his control. Initially the conservative Dishart is appalled by the feisty girl, but he soon comes to appreciate her inner goodness. Their romantic liaison scandalizes the townspeople, and the minister''s position is jeopardized until Dishart''s heroism stuns and transforms the hearts of the local villagers.'
'comedy, drama','The film tells the story of "Marky" (Shirley Temple), whose father gives her to a gangster-run gambling operation as a "marker" (collateral) for a bet. When he loses his bet and commits suicide, the gangsters are left with her on their hands. They decide to keep her temporarily and use her to help pull off one of their fixed races, naming her the owner of the horse to be used in the race. Marky is sent to live with bookie Sorrowful Jones (Adolphe Menjou). Initially upset about being forced to look after her, he eventually begins to develop a father–daughter relationship with her. His fellow gangsters become fond of her and begin to fill the roles of her extended family. Bangles (Dorothy Dell) – girlfriend of gang kingpin Big Steve (Charles Bickford), who has gone to Chicago to place bets on the horse – also begins to care for Marky, and to fall in love with Sorrowful, whose own concern for Marky shows he has a warm heart beneath his hard-man persona. Sorrowful, encouraged by Bangles and Marky, gets a bigger apartment, buys Marky new clothes and himself a better cut of suit, reads her bedtime stories, and shows her how to pray. However, being around the gang has a somewhat bad influence on Marky, and she begins to develop a cynical nature and a wide vocabulary of gambling terminology and slang. Bangles and Sorrowful, worried that her acquired bad-girl attitude means she will not get adopted by a "good family", put on a party with gangsters dressed up as knights-of-the-round-table, to rekindle her former sweetness. She is unimpressed until they bring in the horse and parade her around on its back. Big Steve, returning to New York, frightens the horse, which throws her, and she is taken to the hospital. Big Steve goes there to pay back Sorrowful for trying to steal Bangles but is roped into giving Marky the direct blood transfusion she needs for her life-saving operation. Sorrowful, praying for her survival, destroys the drug which, administered to the horse, would have helped it win the race but killed it soon after. Big Steve, told he has "good blood" and pleased to have given life for a change, forgives Bangles and Sorrowful. They plan to marry and adopt Marky.'
'drama','A wastrel father and his long-abandoned daughter find themselves working in the same London nightclub. Gradually they come to bond and repair their broken relationship.'
'drama, crime','A telephone line repairman named Joe Graham (Spencer Tracy) lives in Los Angeles. One night he''s offered a promotion but declines telling his boss he''s happy being a "trouble shooter" working out in the field solving problems for a living. Later Joe’s co-worker and partner Dan Sutter cannot work the night shift, and Joe has to work with a new repairman called Casey, who has an aptitude for practical jokes. Joe and Casey run into some odd things during their shift, finding a corpse at the place of their first assignment. When the shift is over, both men go for a drink, and they find their colleague Dan very drunk in a casino. This night the police are on their way to raid the casino, but Casey hears about the raid and manages to warn both his colleagues and the casino owner, causing the raid to be a complete failure. The next day both Casey and Joe are accused of tipping off the owner and causing the raid to be unsuccessful. In an attempt to exculpate himself, Joe tells his boss about the reason for their involvement in the events, and about Dan’s visit to the casino. The result is that Dan is fired from his position without notice. Joe has been involved with one of the company’s switchboard operators, Ethel Greenwood. They split up after he suspected her of dating his partner Dan one night when Joe was working overtime. Now he reconciles with her and they go back together. However, soon after they are reunited, Dan tells Ethel about how he got fired from work, and Ethel is upset with Joe for causing it. They break up again. Joe and Ethel don’t see each other for a while, but he hears she quit her job and started working for another company together with Dan. It turns out the office where they work is a cover-up for a racketeering operation, run by two men by the name of George and Max. Their illegal business idea consists of tapping into the phone lines of a nearby investment company to get secret stock tips. Joe is unaware of this sly operation, until one day when he and Casey are sent to investigate the investment company’s phone lines. They have complained about the lines malfunctioning, and when Joe sees the tap he discloses the racketeering operation. Joe catches Dan red handed, as he is trying to get into the investment company’s vaults and steal the contents. The police are notified, and the robbery in progress is stopped, but Dan manages to escape from the crime scene. Joe tips off the police about Dan and they go to his apartment. When they arrive, Ethel is there to meet up with Dan for their trip to Mexico with the bounty from the robbery. Ethel finds Dan shot and killed in the apartment and comes running out into the street in a state of complete hysteria. When the police catch her, she has a check from Dan’s bosses in her hand, and it has Dan’s fingerprints all over it. Ethel is arrested for killing Dan and being an accomplice in the racketeering operation. Joe is doubtful of Ethel’s involvement in the illegal business, and he doesn’t believe she killed Dan. He decides to find Dan’s other girlfriend and partner in crime, Pearl Latour. Joe searches all over Long Beach to find her, and eventually he does. Pearl confesses to Joe that she indeed killed Dan, and that the reason was that he was trying to trick her and take the money that was hers. While Joe and Pearl are still talking, an earthquake shakes the whole area, and the house where they are caves in from the shaking. Pearl doesn’t escape the house in time and is buried under the masses, but is still alive. To get Pearl’s story about how she killed Dan, Joe and Casey manage to use an emergency phone line to contact her under the debris. Pearl’s last confession is then heard by the police, and Ethel is released. Before Joe can take Pearl in, however, a huge earthquake hits Long Beach, and Pearl is buried in debris. Joe and Casey rig an emergency phone line, and police Captain Flynn records Pearl''s dying confession. Ethel is cleared of all suspicions and released from jail. Upon her release Ethel and Joe are both guests at Casey and his fiancee Maizie’s wedding at city hall, at which Ethel persuades Joe to get a marriage license of his own.[2]'
'drama','In the mid-1930s, in the early days of military aviation, an era of open cockpits and biplanes, two U.S. Army pilots, in a friendly rivalry, are always trying to get the best of each other. 2nd Lt. Tom Cooper (William Cagney) gets the nickname "Soapy", from his friend, 1st Lt. Richard "Dick" Wood, "Woody" (Edward J. Nugent). Tom''s trademark gift to a female friend is an inscribed bar of soap. Tom finds out that "Ida Johnson", the girl he''s been seeing while Dick has been off the base, is really Dick''s fiancée, Evelyn Worthington (June Collyer). She introduced herself as Ida (Hattie McDaniel), using her maid''s name as a lark. When Dick finds the tell-tale bar of soap from Tom, it''s no joke to him, and two friends are at odds. Dick breaks off the engagement while Evelyn is torn between two loves. The two pilots are picked to go on a dangerous balloon mission launched into the stratosphere, to evaluate high altitude flight capability. Before they get off the ground, the tense relationship has caused friction between the former friends. The generals keep reminding them that the equipment on board is more important than they are. When a thunderstorm takes them thousands of miles off course, the two flyers are "lost in the stratosphere". It does not look like either of them will survive until Evelyn begs them to bail out. Dick, finally realizing Tom''s innocence, knocks him out and throws him off the balloon, so he can come down safely by parachute, thereby jeopardizing his own chances of survival. After a crash landing in Quebec, from his hospital bed, Dick gives his blessing to Tom and Evelyn.'
'drama','Marian and Ned are getting married in two days. Ned is accused by a man of having an affair with his wife and killed in front of her. Marian goes to a resort she loves of in the Canadian Rockies in hopes it will snap her out of her emotional withdrawal. One day while walking alone, she falls off a ledge and injures her leg. She is discovered and rescued by Dan Forrester, and his dog Sandy. Dan visits Marian every day, even though she is still upset about her fiancé''s death. Before he goes home, Dan asks her to marry him. She refuses at first, telling him she does not love him, but he is undeterred. At the last moment, she changes her mind and accepts his proposal. After the wedding, however, they sleep in separate bedrooms. The couple go to Chicago, where he heads a successful law firm. He dotes on Marian, even building her a mansion in the country. He coaxes her out of her depression, and everything is going well enough, until one day Frank Ellinger has to make an emergency landing on her estate after his airplane runs out of fuel. Mistaking her for a servant, he grabs her and kisses her. She slaps him in the face and leaves, but long-dead emotions are stirred within her. They are both surprised when they meet socially. He turns out to run a transport company. She rejects his advances, but he persists. When Dan goes to New York for three weeks on business, Frank sees her every day, and Marian soon falls in love again. When Dan returns, Marian tells him the news. He is devastated. He stays up all night trying to come to grips with this development, even though he has a major corporate case going to trial the next day. At the trial, he collapses and has a heart attack. Marian, who had already packed her clothes to go to Frank, refuses to leave Dan''s side, despite Frank''s urging. The tables are turned: now she is the one trying to cheer Dan up. She then realizes she has finally come to love her husband, and tells him so.'
'war','During World War I, the young lieutenant in charge of a small British mounted patrol in the empty Mesopotamian desert is shot and killed by an unseen sniper. This leaves the sergeant at a loss, since he had not been told what their mission is and has no idea where they are. Riding north in the hope of rejoining their brigade, the eleven remaining men reach a deserted oasis where they find water, dates to eat and shelter. During the night, one of the sentries is killed, the other seriously wounded, and all their horses are stolen, leaving them stranded. One by one, the remaining men are picked off by the unseen assailants. In desperation, the sergeant sends two men chosen by lot on foot for help, but they are caught and their mutilated bodies returned. One man, Abelson, suffering from heat exhaustion, sees a mirage and wanders into deadly rifle fire. The pilot of a British biplane spots the survivors, but nonchalantly lands nearby and despite frantic warnings is killed. After dark, the sergeant takes the machine gun from the aircraft and then sets the plane on fire as a signal to any British troops. Sanders, a religious fanatic, goes mad and walks into deadly fire. In the end only the sergeant is left and, thinking he too is dead, the six Arabs who have been besieging the oasis advance on foot. Using the machine gun from the aircraft, he kills them all. A British patrol which had seen the smoke from the burning plane rides up and the officer in charge asks the sergeant roughly where his men are. In silence, the sergeant shows him their graves.'
'western','An impoverished saddle tramp from Utah rides into a small town seeking work. He finds himself gunning down a trio of men robbing a local bank. The marshal sees the fearless, quick-drawing, sharp-shooting, hard-riding stranger as the man for the marshal''s plan of discovering who is behind a crooked rodeo. A further mystery is that several rodeo riders have died of snakebite.'
'drama','Paul Verin walks through the streets of 1915 Paris carrying his small daughter Linette on one arm and a black satchel on the other. Arriving at the home of Paul’s boyhood friend, attorney Fernand De Marnay, Paul relates the events that led him there. Five years ago Paul and his wife Adele lived in Clichy. They lived off what Paul could make with his political writings. Adele loves Paul but she is unhappy living in Clichy. She wants to live in Paris. To make enough money to move to Paris, Paul accepts an offer to write political articles for aspiring politician Henri Dumont agreeing to let Dumont take credit as the author. Dumont has political aspirations and the anti-war editorials make Dumont popular. Paul and wife are able to live in Paris comfortably. Dumont’s rising popularity attracts the interest of a group of wealthy arms dealers who would like the editorials to move toward a pro-war viewpoint. Paul is an avowed pacifist and refuses to write such articles for Dumont. When war breaks out, Dumont uses his influence to see that Paul is sent to the front. Paul becomes a corporal and see action at Verdun. Paul is given leave to see Adele. At the railroad station, Paul finds his leave has been cancelled. He hears a rumor that not only is Dumont spending time with Adele but Dumont is also responsible for his leave being cancelled. On hearing this, Paul boards the train to Paris. He is arrives at his home and discovers Dumont attempting to force himself on Adele. Enraged, Paul uses his bayonet to kill Dumont. Paul reveals the contents of his satchel to de Mornay. Paul had lost his ‘head’ to Dumont and now he has it back. Adele arrives with the police. De Mornay will be able to get an acquittal for Paul.'
'drama, crime','Jessica Wells (Astor) is a beautiful and talented actress, returning to the stage after a three-year absence. Although her triumphal return seems certain, family and friends are shocked when Vance (Calhern), her long-lost husband with a criminal past, shows up at the family home. He immediately exerts his influence on the vivacious Jessica, and she becomes a sleepwalking automaton blindly obeying orders. The avaricious and opportunistic Vance (who appears carrying pet mice in a cage) has heard that his wife holds half the rights to the play in which she will be featured, a prospective hit, but a certain disaster in her somnambulist state. Stage star Damon Wells (Robinson) lends theatrical prestige to his sister''s comeback while helping to reclaim her talent as her acting coach. He and Jessica''s manager (Cortez) realize that the verminous Vance must be dealt with at once, so Damon begins an elaborate ruse, presenting himself to the schemer as the bearded French theatrical producer Jules Chautard. Vance is lured to a hotel room by Jules/Damon, thinking that he will be paid handsomely for Jessica''s half-interest in the play, but is instead drugged and then stabbed to death. Damon cannily covers his tracks in the murder, but he accidentally leaves a few theatrical mustache-whiskers when closing a Gideon Bible. Police Sergeant William Curtis (Landau) cracks the case when he connects the artificial hair to the art of an actor and confronts Damon in his dressing room. The detective, however, is aware of the suspicious past of the victim and not unsympathetic to the actor. Wells is left with the suggestion that he can perhaps act his way out of the rap.'
'action','A pair of firemen and friends, Tim Bradley and Dave Jordan, are both attracted to court stenographer Judy Manners after a rescue from a fire. Judy, involved against her will in an embezzlement scheme, ends up starting a fire to chase away the embezzlers as the guy try to save her from both the flames and the crooks.'
'comedy romance','Although sisters Geraldine and Carol Stewart live luxuriously in a Park Avenue apartment in New York City, their money has run out due to some bad business investments. Their servants, Williams and Annette, expect to be leaving, but the sisters invite them to remain as paying tenants. They agree, then surprise the haughty sisters by expecting them to share in performing the household chores. Geraldine looks for work, but receives no offers except for a striptease act in a burlesque show. Williams is mistaken for a taxi driver by a wealthy tourist, "Pancake Annie" Jones from Nevada, who has come with her son Phineas to seek an entry into Manhattan high society. Carol elopes with a rich acquaintance, Garrett Wetherby, which leaves Geraldine on her own, needing money. She accepts the job doing a striptease, but is arrested when the club is raided. Williams decides to accept Pancake Annie''s offer to go West in her employment. Geraldine realizes she loves Williams and asks to go along.'
'drama, romance','On June 15, 1904, the ship General Slocum catches fire and sinks in New York''s East River. Two boys, Blackie Gallagher (Mickey Rooney) and Jim Wade (Jimmy Butler), are rescued by a priest, Father Joe (Leo Carrillo), but are orphaned by the disaster. They are taken in by another survivor, Poppa Rosen (George Sidney), who lost his young son in the sinking. The boys live with Poppa Rosen for a short while; then Rosen, a Russian Jew, is trampled to death by a policeman''s horse after he heckles Leon Trotsky at a Communist rally and a melee breaks out. The boys remain close friends, though their lives diverge. Studious from the very beginning, Jim (played as an adult by William Powell) gets his law degree and eventually becomes the assistant district attorney. Blackie is a cheerful, happy-go-lucky kid who loves to throw dice and trick other kids out of their money; he (Clark Gable) becomes the owner of a fancy, if illegal, casino. Though his casino is regularly "raided", the cops have been paid off and business resumes immediately after they leave. Blackie''s girlfriend Eleanor (Myrna Loy) loves him, but pleads with him in vain to marry her and give up his dangerous life. Jim is elected district attorney. Blackie, always a supporter and admirer of Jim''s, knowing that he is incorruptible, arranges to meet him for a celebration, but something comes up, and he sends Eleanor to keep Jim company at the Cotton Club until he can join them. Jim and Eleanor talk the night away. Afterward, she gives Blackie one last chance to marry her and settle down. When Blackie refuses, she leaves him. Months later, Jim and Eleanor meet by chance and start keeping company (she informs Jim that she has not seen Blackie for months). Meanwhile, Blackie kills Manny Arnold (Noel Madison) for not paying his gambling debts. Jim summons him to his office, where he tells him that he and Eleanor are going to get married. Blackie is sincerely happy for both of them. Jim also informs his friend that he is a suspect in the Arnold murder. However, there is no real evidence, so the crime goes unsolved. Though Jim invites him to be the best man at his wedding, Blackie discreetly turns him down. After returning from his honeymoon, Jim runs for governor of New York. Snow (Thomas E. Jackson), who had been his chief assistant until Jim fired him for corruption, threatens to tell reporters that Jim covered up for Blackie in the Arnold case. Though untrue, this would lose Jim a close race for the governorship. By chance, Blackie and Eleanor meet at the horse track. Eleanor tells Blackie about Snow. Blackie shoots Snow dead in a washroom of Madison Square Garden during a hockey game. A beggar who pretends to be blind sees him leave the scene of the crime. Jim has no choice but to prosecute Blackie. Blackie is convicted and sentenced to death. Jim wins the election, partly because the public knows that Jim is so honest he prosecuted his childhood friend. Eleanor tries to get him to commute the sentence to life imprisonment, revealing Blackie''s selfless motive for killing Snow, but that only makes things worse. When Jim remains steadfast, Eleanor leaves him. At the last moment, Jim hurries to Sing Sing Prison and meets Blackie, together with Father Joe, who is now the prison''s chaplain. Jim finally offers to commute the death sentence, but Blackie turns him down. Father Joe leads Blackie to the electric chair while saying last rites. A few days later, Jim calls a special joint session of the New York Legislature. He reveals how the murder helped him win the election, and how at the end he compromised his principles and was willing to commute his friend''s sentence. He then tenders his resignation. When he leaves, Eleanor is waiting for him. She tells him that she was wrong about him, and they leave together to start a new life.'
'horror','Don Maxwell is a former vaudeville impersonator who is working as the lab assistant to Dr. Meirschultz, a mad scientist attempting to bring the dead back to life. When Don kills Meirschultz, he attempts to hide his crime by "becoming" the doctor, taking over his work and copying his appearance and manner. In the process, he slowly goes insane. The "doctor" treats a mental patient, Buckley, but accidentally injects him with adrenaline, which causes him to go into violent fits. In one of these fits, Buckley kidnaps a woman, tears her clothes off, and rapes her. Buckley''s wife discovers the body of the real doctor, and blackmails Don into turning her husband into a zombie. The ersatz doctor turns the tables on her by manipulating her into fighting with his estranged wife, Alice Maxwell, a former showgirl. When the cat-breeding neighbor Goof sees what''s going on, he calls the police, who stop the fight and, following the sound of Satan the cat, find the body of the real doctor hidden behind a brick wall.[2][3][4]'
'drama','A brash marine is assigned to a new post which is now under the command of his former rival. The marine falls in love with his commanding officer''s fiancée and romances her away from him. The day before their wedding, the fiancée calls it off after the marine is involved with an incident in Tijuana. The fiancée leaves for Central America to join her father, who is a diplomat, and the disgraced marine quits but re-enlists as a private. Assigned to a post in Central America, the marine discovers he must rescue his rival, who has been captured by the rebels plotting to overthrow the territorial governor, her former fiancée''s father.'
'drama','Chief Joe Thunderhorse (Barthelmess) is the star of a wild west show at the Century of Progress in Chicago. Though he is the authentic son of a Native American chief, he has lived away from the reservation so long that he has lost all personal connection to them. His ethnic authenticity and physical prowess are exploited by white showmen. His rich white girlfriend (Dodd) flaunts him in front of her curious friends. Joe and his valet (Muse) travel to the reservation where he grew up upon hearing that his father Black Pony is on his death bed. His dying father no longer recognizes him. The terrible living conditions to which Joe''s people are subjected to at the hands of white government agents are also revealed to him. Upon the death of his father, Joe''s sister Jennie is raped by a government agent and, with the assistance of a college-educated reservation resident named Lydia (Dvorak), Joe decides to take action.[1][2]'
'drama','A dedicated young doctor places his patients above everyone else in his life. Unfortunately, his Social Register fianceé, Laura Hudson(Myrna Loy), can''t accept the fact that he considers an appointment in the operating room more important than attending a cocktail party. He soon drifts into an affair with a pretty nurse who shares his passion for healing. One thread of the story involves diabetic hypoglycemia:[2] Two doctors have a conflict at the bedside of a young girl who is desperately ill. The younger doctor diagnoses (correctly) that the patient is in insulin shock (needing glucose), while the senior doctor insists she is in a diabetic coma (needing insulin). Fortunately, the doctor with the correct diagnosis prevails and the child recovers.'
'comedy, musical','Playboy Captain Danilo (Maurice Chevalier) is ordered by King Achmet of Marshovia (George Barbier) to court and marry Madame Sonia (Jeanette MacDonald), a rich widow who owns a large portion of the kingdom.'
'drama, crime','The movie begins at the murder trial of Ethel Saxon, a woman who shot her lover in a crime of passion. During the trial, Edward Weldon, the jury foreman, asks the defendant a question, which essentially leads to a guilty verdict and a death sentence for her. The rest of film takes place on the evening of the execution, mostly in the Weldon home. Edward is dealing with the consequences of his role as foreman, and his daughter Stella is upset by the departure of her gangster boyfriend, Gar Boni, whom she met during the trial. The evening culminates at midnight as the switch is pulled at the death house and a gun is fired in a parked car. Moments later, Stella returns home, admitting that she has shot Gar Boni.'
'comedy drama','Despite the dramatic story elements of child kidnapping, the overall tone of the film mixes comedy and drama. Madeline Fane (Wieck) is a busy and successful actress who is fiercely devoted to her two-year-old son. One day, little Michael disappears from his crib. Miss Fane avoids speaking to the police at first, then calls upon both law enforcement and her legions of fans for help. One of them, impoverished Molly Prentiss (Brady) who is also a single mother, comes to the rescue.'
'drama, mystery','A man wrongfully convicted of murder escapes custody and goes in search of real killer. The problem is that he only has one clue to go on.'
'drama','Ellen Holmes, a girl from an ordinary family, marries a rich, yet spoiled, boy from a snobbish family. The pair has a son, but soon Ellen finds herself ousted from the life of her husband. However, she rediscovers her son years later.[5]'
'musical','Jack Ellery (Oakie) is staging a lavish musical revue, starring Eric Lander (Brisson), Ann Ware (Carlisle), and Rita Ross (Michael), supported by a cast of a hundred background singers/dancers (almost all women, and many scantily clad) and two full orchestras. On opening night, just before the show, somebody tries to kill Ware several times. Ellery calls in police lieutenant Murdock (McLaglen) of the homicide squad to investigate. During the show a private detective and then Rita are murdered. Ellery hides this from the rest of the performers, claiming the victims are just sick, and talks Murdock into investigating while the revue continues on, otherwise Ellery will go broke. Several twists and turns follow, but finally the murders are solved just after the show ends. In the last scene, Nancy (Wing), a squeaky pretty blonde showgirl, finally gets to tell Ellery and Murdock what she has attempted to tell Ellery several times throughout the show. However, he kept putting her off, she was just trying to gain his attention, and he was too busy staging the show. She actually had a vital piece of information that would have solved the first murder much sooner, and might have prevented the second murder. Now that the show is over and a success, Ellery''s attention is finally on her, and they go out for the night to celebrate. She giggles once again and moves off stage left in front of him, and then Oakie breaks the fourth wall just momentarily, looking into the camera with a devilish grin, before he follows her.'
'mystery','Trans-America Air Lines pilot "Three Star" Bob Halsey (Lyle Talbot) is in love with stewardess Judy Wagner (Ann Dvorak), but she wants him to stop his daredevil ways. So does his boss, Lackey (Charles C. Wilson). Confident in his abilities and knowing that he is the airline''s best pilot, he pays neither any mind. Federal agent Brownell (Henry O''Neill) urgently requests Lackey''s cooperation: Clement Williams (Edward McWade) must be flown from Los Angeles to Washington, D.C., with a cylinder full of a revolutionary new explosive he has invented. However, Lackey''s assistant Jason (Arthur Pierson) is eavesdropping on him for Taggart (Russell Hicks), a spy. He eavesdrops again when Lackey chooses Bob as pilot and Judy''s brother Tom (Robert Light) as co-pilot. Taggart sends three men to provoke Bob into a fistfight. While Bob is knocked out, another pilot, George Wexley (Gordon Westcott), chats casually with Tom, "learns" that Bob is late for the special trip, and offers to protect Bob''s job by taking over. Over the lower Sierras, the Ford Trimotor airliner explodes. Bob and Lackey fly to the crash site and talk to Brownell. Tom''s cap is there. Back in Los Angeles, they report that there are no survivors. Frantic for news of her brother, Judy drives to the site before they return, evading the police roadblock. She is recognized by Jason, who is traveling with the spies to a nearby house they are using. Improvising a plan, they pose as federal agents and stop her. At the house she is surprised to see Wexley, who tells her the saboteur ordered him and Tom to parachute out, then set a bomb and himself parachuted out with the cylinder—all nearly true, except that Wexley was the saboteur and Tom is dead. They want to hide the cylinder in Judy''s car and trick her into driving to Mexico, so Wexley says that Tom has gone to Tijuana to identify a suspect. She agrees to leave in the morning. But then the radio reports the recovery of Tom''s body. Realizing her predicament, Judy pretends not to have heard. That night, finding some paint, she paints Bob''s three-star personal logo on the porch roof of the house. Next day, back at Los Angeles, Bob learns Jason has left the office—with the three men who knocked him out. He and Lackey then discover Jason''s eavesdropping device. Bob flies back to the crash area. As his co-pilot he takes Wings, who works as the airline''s mechanic because when he got his pilot''s license he learned he was afraid to fly. They see the three stars and land. Bob tells Wings that if there is any sign of trouble he must fly away and alert the Air Patrol. When shots are fired, Wings does just that—not seeing Bob and Judy running for the plane. The spies capture them both. Wexley and Taggart depart in Wexley''s armed biplane, taking Judy and the cylinder. Wings then arrives with the Air Patrol, who capture the rest of the gang after a brief gunfight. In a dogfight between biplanes, Taggart is killed but the Air Patrol plane is shot down. Now rescued, Bob takes off with Wings. He finds Wexley''s plane and executes risky maneuvers to force him to land. Wexley tries to run away and Wings throws a rock at him. Both Judy and the cylinder are recovered. Although the government is grateful, all that Judy and Bob want to do is get married.'
'mystery','Set in Los Angeles, this is the story of switchboard operator Ruth Raymond (Mary Carlisle). She learns from her lawyer Alden Murray (Porter Hall), that she is actually the daughter of railroad tycoon Luke Carson (Berton Churchill). She had been kidnapped as a baby by Luke’s brother and partner Elwood and placed with strangers. Once it is found out that she is an heiress there is an attempt on her life by her bodyguard and chauffeur, which is foiled by Godfrey D. Scott (Charles Ruggles). A message from her father is intercepted and replaced telling her to meet him in New York instead of Los Angeles. Ruth, Murray and her best friend Georgia Latham (Una Merkel) board the train bound for New York. The lights go out in Ruth’s car and an announcement is heard “eight hours to live,” after which Scott introduces himself to Ruth and her friends as a slueth who prevents crime. Scott reunites Ruth with her stowaway boyfriend John Blake (Russell Hardie). Then the train is suddenly stopped by the wreck of a circus train on the tracks. Murray is murdered and another announcement is made to the passengers of Ruth’s private car stating they only have five hours to live. Then an escaped gorilla attacks Ruth, Georgia and Scott and then jumps from the train. The next morning, the train stops in a small town where Ruth’s father had been tipped off to meet her. Luke Carson joins Ruth’s party in the private car. Then one by one all the windows are blackened and another announcement is made for the passengers to say their prayers. Carson recognizes his brother, Elwood’s voice and identifies him. Elwood explains his reasoning for terrorizing his brother and says he has planted explosives on the private car and released it from the train so that it is now rolling downhill towards another train. Scott finds and kills Elwood and after a harrowing journey, the private car passengers are saved and transferred to another train.'
'comedy','Mrs. Wiggs (Lord), facing eviction, scrabbles for survival with her number of children and hopes for the return of her husband, who left many years before, looking for gold in the Klondike. The family owns the shack but it has a mortgage of $25 (in 1901, about $675 in today''s money) and the evil moneylender is threatening them. Mrs. Wiggs is a laundress but can''t manage to save enough back because whatever extra money she gets is used to help others, often animals. The oldest son, James, has worked hard all his life, but now is seriously ill with tuberculosis. The little girls are all named "out of geography", Europena (Virginia Weidler), Asia (Carmencita Johnson) and Australia (Edith Fellows). The second-oldest boy, Billy (Jimmy Butler), is something of an entrepreneur. When he finds a spavined and dying horse he brings it home and the family nurses it back to reasonable health, naming it Cuba. Neighbor Tabitha Hazy (ZaSu Pitts) seeks a husband and takes out a subscription to "The Matrimonial Guide", the 1901 version of a dating service. Alice (Evelyn Venable), a wealthy girl who is a volunteer social worker, brings the family a feast of a Thanksgiving dinner (in the book, they promptly sell it and buy cheaper food). Her fiance becomes involved, finally taking Jimmy to a hospital. Billy makes enough to take the family to a vaudeville variety show, and Mrs. Wiggs describes it all to Jimmy as he dies. She places an advertisement in national newspapers, directed to her husband, saying that Jimmy is dead and he must come home. Tabitha has found a man she likes (W. C. Fields), but fears he won''t like her because she can''t cook. Mrs. Wiggs conspires with her to serve an exquisite dinner. When he finds out the truth, he refuses to marry her, but she tells him she doesn''t want someone who thinks only of his own pleasure and throws him out. In the midst of all this, Mr. Wiggs arrives and sits quietly in a corner until he is noticed. He''s got enough money to pay off the mortgage, and everyone lives happily ever after.'
'mystery','Miss Withers (Edna May Oliver) discovers the dead body of her colleague, music teacher Louise Halloran (Barbara Fritchie), in a schoolroom. She summons her old friend, Inspector Oscar Piper (James Gleason), but by the time he arrives, the corpse has disappeared. Having watched the only entrance (other than a fire exit with an alarm), Miss Withers knows the killer must still be inside. When the police search the building, Detective Donahue (Edgar Kennedy) is knocked out in the basement. Meanwhile, Miss Withers notices various clues, including a tune on the blackboard in Halloran''s classroom. The body is found being burned in the basement furnace. Then, the fire alarm goes off; the murderer has escaped. Oscar Schweitzer (Frederick Vogeding), the school''s drunkard janitor, had some financial quarrel with Halloran. Piper arrests him, but Miss Withers does not believe he is the one they are after. She goes to the dead woman''s apartment, which she had shared with her friend and school secretary, Jane Davis (Gertrude Michael). There she discovers that Halloran held one of the tickets for the Irish Sweepstakes. A newspaper account reports it is for the favorite in the race and is already worth $50,000. If the horse were to win, the amount would be $300,000. Davis claims she had a half share in the ticket, giving her a motive for murder. Fellow teacher Addison Stevens (Bruce Cabot) admits that Halloran was attracted to him. MacFarland (Tully Marshall), the womanizing head of the school, asks Withers to investigate the crime, but suspiciously suggests she leave town to check out Halloran''s relatives. Snooping around, she finds a fragment of a burnt love letter from him to Halloran. Later, during another search of the basement, the light is turned off and someone throws a hatchet at Miss Wither''s head. After getting over her fright, she triumphantly points out to Piper that Schweitzer could not be the killer, as he is still in jail. Then, they see a newspaper report that he has escaped. It is discovered that the victim was already dying of "pernicious anemia of the bones". When Donahue comes to in the hospital, he cannot remember what happened, but Miss Withers has Piper tell the newspapers that Donahue knows the killer''s identity. When the murderer sneaks in to Donahue''s hospital room to poison his medicine, the trap is sprung. The criminal turns out to be Addison Stevens. (The tune on the blackboard spelled out the first few letters of his first name.) Seeing no escape, Stevens drinks the poison himself, but reveals his motive before dying. He and Halloran were secretly married last summer. However, when his feelings changed, she would not give him up. He tried poisoning her slowly (causing the anemia), but she became suspicious, forcing him to act more decisively. Later, when Miss Withers calls to console Davis, she is disillusioned when Detective "Smiley" North (Regis Toomey) answers the telephone and reveals he is having breakfast with the pretty woman.'
'musical','Opera star Frieda Hotzfelt (Gloria Swanson) spars with librettist Bruno Mahler (John Boles). Aspiring songwriter Karl Roder (Douglass Montgomery) stumbles into their stormy relationship.'
'mystery, horror','Bela Lugosi stars as Mr. Wong, a "harmless" Chinatown shopkeeper by day and relentless blood-thirsty pursuer of the Twelve Coins of Confucius by night. With possession of the coins, Mr. Wong will be supreme ruler of the Chinese province of Keelat, and his evil destiny will be fulfilled. A killing spree follows in dark and dangerous Chinatown as Wong gets control of 11 of the 12 coins. Though played up as a Tong war, ace reporter Jason Barton and his girl Peg are hot on his trail as is the Chinese Secret Service. All parties soon find themselves in serious trouble when they stumble onto Wong''s headquarters.'
'crime','London police constables are being killed by a man calling himself "Mr. X" (Leonard Mudie). By chance, one of the murders occurs around the same time and place as a diamond robbery, leading Police Commissioner Sir Herbert Frensham (Henry Stephenson) to suspect the same man is responsible for both, much to the annoyance of the thief, Nicholas "Nick" Revel (Robert Montgomery), and his confederates, taxi driver Joseph "Joe" Palmer (Forrester Harvey) and insurance clerk Hutchinson (Ivan F. Simpson). After another slaying, Sir Christopher Marche is arrested as a suspect, as he had drunkenly quarreled with the latest victim shortly before his death. However, Nick provides him with an alibi. As a result, he becomes acquainted with Marche''s grateful fiancée (and the commissioner''s daughter), Jane Frensham (Elizabeth Allan). The two are attracted to each other. Meanwhile, Sir Herbert becomes convinced that Nick is Mr. X and puts him under constant surveillance. When the commissioner learns that his daughter has gone alone to Nick''s flat, he sends Marche a message supposedly from Nick urgently requesting that they meet. When Marche finds the couple alone together, though they are not doing anything untoward, he breaks off his engagement with Jane. Nick decides to give up his life of crime for Jane. He mails back the jewel. However, when Joe warns him that Hutchinson has been picked up for questioning, he realizes that it is only a matter of time before his associate gives him up. Nick discovers that the locations of the murders form an X, which provides him with the site of the next crime. He disguises himself as a policeman and flushes the real killer out. After a struggle, Mr. X is fatally injured, but before he dies, he boasts to Sir Herbert how close he came to fulfilling his goal of one murder for each of the 15 years he spent in prison.'
'mystery','Captain Holling (Beery) is relieved of command of his ship after he suffers a nervous breakdown. His replacement, Captain Downey (Howard), takes over the liner just as it is about to be used for an experiment in remote control. Professor Grimson (Lewis) has devised a system for controlling the ship from a land-based laboratory. However, as Grimson demonstrates the system, a rival group is listening in, hoping to use the device for its own purposes.'
'western','Chris Morrell (John Wayne), the guardian of half-Indian girl Nina (Shirley Jean Rickert), is helping her find her missing white father, so she can cash in on her late mother''s oil lease. Outlaw Sam Black (Yakima Canutt) is after the girl and her father as well. Besides dealing with the Black gang, Morrell has to find another robber, Jim Moore, who switches clothes with him when he finds Morrell unconscious after a fight with Sam Black. Along the way, he meets a woman who is the sister of Jim Moore (Buffalo Bill Jr.), another bad hombre in cahoots with Moore, and an old friend who takes in Nina and helps Morrell locate Nina''s father and fight off the various desperadoes.[2][3] George "Gabby" Hayes played a featured character with a speaking role, but his name was omitted from the cast list in the opening credits.'
'comedy, romance','A lazy and irresponsible Jerry Day (Gary Cooper), desperate for quick cash, is willing to sell the custody rights of his 6-year-old daughter Penelope, nicknamed Penny, (Shirley Temple), whom he''s never seen. Cooper''s girlfriend Toni Carstairs (Carole Lombard) is shocked by this callousness and walks out on him, but when Cooper meets his daughter and has a change of heart, he reclaims the little girl. The next few scenes show what happens when an inexperienced father takes a newly found daughter into his care. The girl and dad are seen on roller coasters and other fantastic fun-filled rides. The next thing you know the doctor is standing over Penny with a thermometer and telling Jerry that it is nothing that a bit of castor oil won''t cure. After the awful faces and the shaking of her head Penny succumbs to the castor oil. Of course she receives a brand new teddy bear for her troubles. Penny and Jerry arrive after a trip abroad to be reunited with Toni, who will now play her mother. Jerry tries hard to re-enter the life of playing a flim-flam man to others. He even tries to swindle a man who is much more versed in the art of taking other people''s money. The man gives him a check for two thousand dollars but it is as worthless as the paper it is written on. After a couple of attempts at taking others Jerry resorts to re-entering the work force. He tries his hand at real estate but is not very successful at it. Pretty soon he finds himself in need of cash to support himself, Penny and Toni. Still, Cooper can''t hold down a job. The gentleman who gave Jerry the phoney check is spotted by Jerry as he takes a diamond while they are out together. This guy is really good and convinces Jerry to steal a very valuable necklace from a lady that Penny has made friends with. The lady offers to throw a party for Penny as a sort of introduction to see if Penny would like to live with her. While Penny and Jerry are at the party, Jerry sees that necklace out on the bed. He takes the necklace and puts it into the teddy bear that Penny brought with her. The lady discovers the necklace missing and calls the police. They have everyone searched but one person who is not searched is Penny. She is also given the teddy bear as she walks out. When Jerry gets home with Penny she goes to her room. There she discovers the stolen necklace. She asks Jerry if he took the necklace. He says he didn''t. Penny starts to cry, and when she cries it is very difficult to get her to be quiet. Toni goes into her room and talks to Penny. She tells Penny that it was her that took the necklace so really Jerry was telling the truth. Penny is again satisfied that her so-called father didn''t lie. Jerry takes the necklace to that man he met and the man will sell it and Jerry will get a large cut for stealing it. Jerry starts to feel guilty when Penny throws all her faith and love towards Jerry for being honest. he feels guilty and goes back to try to recover the necklace so he can return it. They struggle and Jerry shoots the man with a pistol he produced to show that he meant business, and he gets injured at the same time. He returns the necklace but is now injured during the struggle the night before. He knows he can''t go to the doctor because of a gunshot wound. The last scenes we see are Jerry coming clean and allowing Penny to go away with the lady that owned the necklace. He will turn himself in. Penny, Toni and Jerry are seen at the dock hugging before Penny departs.[1]'
'drama','Murray Golden is an unscrupulous New York City gambler and casino operator who wants to live life to the fullest. His philosophy is encapsulated in something he keeps saying: "You''re only wrong when you fail." His wife, Virginia, has extracted a promise that he will quit the business once he makes $500,000. However, when he does, he breaks his word. He also starts seeing Peggy Warren behind his wife''s back. Murray learns that gangster Al Mossiter has fixed a championship boxing match. He pays one of the fighters to take a dive in the second round, before Mossiter''s man goes down in the fifth, and wins a lot of money. (Mossiter''s boxer is later murdered.) However, Virginia hears about Peggy and threatens to leaves Murray. He manages to convince her that Peggy is the mistress of Freddie, Murray''s friend and associate. He also tells her that he has made enough money and is getting into the insurance business. Later, Mossiter learns who double crossed him and vows to get back everything Murray won from the fight. An associate suggests he kidnap Virginia. When Murray is told about the kidnapping, he races back to the city, but is injured and Peggy is killed in a car crash. Virginia is freed unharmed when the ransom is paid, but she has had enough. She decides to get a divorce. Years later, Murray receives a telegram from Virginia, telling him she is sailing home from Europe and has a "surprise". He is overjoyed, assuming she is coming back to him. However, she tells him that she is going to marry someone else. She asks him for her jewelry. He promises to give it to her in a week, though he is down on his luck and has pawned them. He gets into a poker game with Mossiter and others. After playing for a day and a half, he owes $210,000. Mossiter buys up all of his IOUs and gives him a deadline to come up with the money. Murray shows up at Mossiter''s hotel room and declares he is not going to paying. Furthermore, he says he is going to tell the district attorney who killed the boxer. After Mossiter shoots him, Murray reveals he took out a life insurance policy on himself in order to raise the money to get Virginia''s jewelry back. He boasts that he has outsmarted his killer (winning a $20 bet they had made). The doctor informs Virginia that Murray is dying, so she lies and tells him she is returning to him.'
'drama','Sensitive, club-footed artist Philip Carey (Leslie Howard) is a Briton who has been studying painting in Paris for four years. His art teacher tells him his work lacks talent, so he returns to London to become a medical doctor, but his moodiness and chronic self-doubt make it difficult for him to keep up in his schoolwork. Philip falls passionately in love with vulgar tearoom waitress Mildred Rogers (Bette Davis), even though she is disdainful of his club-foot and his obvious interest in her. Although he is attracted to the anemic and pale-faced woman, she is manipulative and cruel toward him when he asks her out. Her constant response to his romantic invitations is "I don''t mind," an expression so uninterested that it infuriates him – which only causes her to use it all the more. His daydreams about her (her image appears over an illustration in his medical school anatomy textbook, and a skeleton in the classroom is transformed into Mildred) cause him to be distracted from his studies, and he fails his medical examinations. When Philip proposes to her, Mildred declines, telling him she will be marrying a loutish salesman Emil Miller (Alan Hale) instead. The self-centered Mildred vindictively berates Philip with nasty insults for becoming romantically interested in her. Philip begins to forget Mildred when he falls in love with Norah (Kay Johnson), an attractive and considerate romance writer working under a male pseudonym. She slowly cures him of his painful addiction to Mildred. But just when it appears that Philip is finding happiness, Mildred returns, pregnant and claiming that Emil has abandoned her. Philip provides a flat for her, arranges to take care of her financially, and breaks off his relationship with Norah. Norah and Philip admit how bondages exist between people (Philip was bound to Mildred, as Norah was to Philip, and as Mildred was to Miller). Philip''s intention is to marry Mildred after her child is born, but a bored and restless Mildred is an uninterested mother, and gives up the baby''s care to a nurse. At a dinner party celebrating their engagement, one of Philip''s medical student friends, Harry Griffiths (Reginald Denny), flirts with Mildred, who somewhat reciprocates. After Philip confronts Mildred, she runs off with Griffiths for Paris. A second time, Philip again finds some comfort in his studies, and with Sally Athelny (Frances Dee), the tender-hearted daughter of one of his elderly patients in a charity hospital. The Athelny family is caring and affectionate, and they take Philip into their home. Once again, Mildred returns with her baby, this time expressing remorse for deserting him. Philip cannot resist rescuing her and helping her to recover from another failed relationship. Things take a turn for the worse when Mildred moves in, spitefully wrecks his apartment and destroys his paintings and books, and burns the securities and bonds he was given by an uncle to finance his tuition. Philip is forced to quit medical school, but before he leaves the institution, an operation corrects his club foot. The Athelnys take Philip in when he is unable to find work and is locked out of his flat, and he takes a job with Sally''s father as a window dresser. As time progresses, a letter is sent to Philip which informs him that his uncle has died, leaving a small inheritance. With the inheritance money, Philip is able to return to medical school and pass his examinations to become a qualified doctor. Later, Philip meets up with Mildred, now sick, destitute, and -- the movie obliquely hints -- working as a prostitute. Mildred''s baby has died, and she has become distraught and sick with tuberculosis. Before he can visit her again, she dies in a hospital charity ward. With Mildred''s death, Philip is finally freed of his obsession, and he makes plans to marry Sally.'
'drama','Clare, Lady Corven (Diana Wynyard) and Sir Gerald Corven (Colin Clive) are to all outward appearances a happily married upper class British couple. But privately, Lady Clare''s husband is physically and emotionally abusive toward her, and one day she can take no more, and walks out of the relationship. Clare books passage on a ship, where she is befriended by a kind and handsome young man, Tony Croom (Frank Lawton). Although their relationship remains strictly platonic, Tony displays strong feelings for Lady Corven, which are duly noted by a private detective hired by Sir Gerald to keep tabs on his wife. Sir Gerald threatens to paint Clare''s relationship with Tony in an unflattering light in court, this being a time when divorce was considered scandalous, especially among England''s "privileged" classes.[7]'
'musical','Opera singer Mary Barrett (Grace Moore) leaves to study music in Milan, Italy to the disappointment of her family in New York City. Mary gets a job at the Cafe Roma, where Giulio Monteverdi (Tullio Carminati), a famous vocal coach, hears her sing. Giulio promises to make Mary a star if she will allow him to control her life. He also tells her that there cannot be any romance between the two of them, as that would distract from the process of growing her talent. Mary discovers she has stagefright as she prepares for a tour of provincial opera houses, however Giulio helps her overcome it. Years later, still under Giulio''s tutelage, Mary begins to tire of his dominance and discipline. The two meet one of Giulio''s old pupils, Lally (Mona Barrie), while in Vienna. Lally once tried to be romantic with Giulio, but was rejected. This past history renders Mary jealous and she pretends to have laryngitis. Mary thinks Giulio has gone to Lally to rekindle a romance, and so visits Bill Houston (Lyle Talbot), a longtime friend who has proposed marriage. In a jealous huff, Mary decides not to sing that night in order to punish Giulio. Giulio realizes what is going on and tells Mary that Lally will replace her on stage, but then proposes to Mary. She decides to go on, and Mary''s performance of Bizet''s Carmen wins her an invitation to the Metropolitan Opera, her dream venue. Giulio, however, still does not believe that she is ready for such a venue. Later at dinner, Lally lies to Mary by telling her that she is still involved with Bill, who has actually returned to New York. On the night of her debut in Madame Butterfly, Mary is too nervous to go on stage until she sees Giulio in his usual place in the prompter''s box.'
'comedy, drama, musical','In the American Civil War, Union forces are reeling after their defeat in the Second Battle of Bull Run. The Pauline Cushman Players are performing for wounded soldiers at a Union military hospital. Pauline, a spy who works for Allan Pinkerton, recommends her close friend and fellow showgirl Gail to become a spy for the Union cause as Operator 13 (the previous Operator 13 having been caught and shot). Gail, disguised in blackface, accompanies Pauline south as her octaroon black maid. The Confederates become aware there is a spy in their midst, and Captain Gailliard is asked to help find out who it is. While washing General Stuart’s clothes, Gail hears he will attend a ball that night. At the ball, Captain Gailliard suspects that Pauline is a spy and finds evidence in her room. Pauline, trying to flee, is arrested and is to be a witness against Gail, who is later sentenced to death. Both women manage to escape and return to the Union lines. Pinkerton decides to use Gail to trap Gailliard, and as part of the plan, she jeers at a parade of Union soldiers and is thought to be a heroine in the Southern newspapers. Gail, as Anne Claibourne, is pardoned by Lincoln and heads south, where Captain Gailliard is attracted to her. However, Gail is later told by Stuart''s groom, a fellow spy, that she is known to be a spy and she flees in a Confederate uniform. Gailliard grabs her horse, but she strikes him with a gun and rides off with the groom. Gailliard and others pursue them. The fugitives hide in an abandoned farmhouse. Gailliard finds her. Fortunately for her, a group of Union soldiers are nearby. When they spot the groom, still wearing a Confederate uniform, they shoot him. Gail and Gailliard watch undetected as a Confederate is executed by a Union firing squad. Gail tells Gailliard she loves him and refuses to betray him to the soldiers. Then the Confederates attack. In the fighting, Gail persuades Gailliard to slip away in the confusion and rejoin his side. The war effectively comes to an end when Robert E. Lee surrenders to Ulysses S. Grant at Appomattox Court House. Afterward, Gail and Gailliard reconcile.'
'drama','A couple, down on their luck during the Great Depression, move to a farm to try to make a go of living off the land. They have no idea what to do at first, but soon find other downtrodden people to help them. Soon they have a collective of people, some from the big city, who work together on a farm. There is a severe drought, killing the crops. The people then dig a ditch by hand almost two miles long to divert water from a creek to irrigate the crops.'
'drama','After her sister Olga marries and leaves home, Katrin Koerber, the daughter of an Austrian medical professor, fights loneliness and dreams of a more exciting life outside Austria. Consequently, when Dr. Walter Fane, a British bacteriologist, asks her to marry him and move to Hong Kong, she agrees, even though she is not in love with him. As soon as the newlyweds arrive in Hong Kong, however, Walter becomes consumed with his medical work, and Katrin becomes the romantic target of Jack Townsend, the unhappily married attaché to the British embassy. While showing her the city''s exotic sights, Jack flirts with Katrin and kisses her. Katrin, unnerved by Jack''s actions, retreats to her house, but soon rejoins him to observe local dancers performing at a Buddhist festival. Stimulated by the dancing and the atmosphere of a Buddhist temple, Jack confesses his love to Katrin, and Katrin admits that she is not in love with Walter. At home, Katrin then treats Walter coolly and reveals that his chronic lateness and fatigue annoy her. To make amends, Walter comes home early the next day, but discovers Katrin''s bedroom door locked and Jack''s hat on a table. That evening, Walter confronts Katrin with his suspicions, and she admits that she loves Jack. Distraught, Walter tells Katrin that he will grant her a divorce only if Jack promises in writing that he will divorce his wife and marry her. When Katrin presents Walter''s conditions to Jack, he tells her that a divorce would ruin both his career and his reputation and backs out of the affair. Heartbroken, Katrin reluctantly accompanies Walter to an inland region of China, where a cholera epidemic is raging. While Walter struggles to arrest the epidemic, Katrin grows more and more despondent and lonely. Eventually, Walter''s inundation in the death and destruction wrought by the epidemic causes him to see his resentment toward Katrin as insignificant. He tells her that he still loves her and will end her suffering by sending her back to Hong Kong, while he prepares to leave for a remote river village that has been identified as the root of the epidemic. She replies that although she is still conflicted in her feelings for Jack, she nonetheless now understands what a good man Walter is and that she''s ashamed of having cuckolded him. After Walter has left, Jack realizes his genuine love for Katrin and leaves Hong Kong for the inland. Walter returns from the village after ordering it to be burned to combat the spread of the disease. He is overjoyed to find that Katrin has remained to help young cholera victims at a local orphanage, rather than returning to Hong Kong. Walter is knifed in the melee when villagers riot over having their houses burned and Katrin rushes to be near him. While waiting to see her husband, Katrin is confronted by Jack, but tells him that she now loves only Walter and at last understands the sacrifices he makes for medicine. After Jack departs, Katrin assures the wounded Walter that she at last has fallen in love with him.'
'comedy','Joe Palooka (Stuart Erwin) is a naive young man whose father Pete (Robert Armstrong) was a champion boxer, but his lifestyle caused Joe''s mother Mayme (Marjorie Rambeau) to leave him and to take young Joe to the country to raise him. But when a shady boxing manager (Jimmy Durante) discovers Joe''s natural boxing talent, Joe decides to follow him to the big city, where he becomes a champion and begins to follow his father''s path of debauchery, much of it including the glamorous cabaret singer and fortune hunter Nina Madero (Lupe Vélez). The film also stars William Cagney, the younger brother of actor James Cagney in the role of the adversary prize fighter to Knobby. Finally his mother comes to the city to look after things ...'
'drama','Joan McCarty (Glenda Farrell) is married to boxer Ritzy McCarty (Pat O''Brien), who has had some minor success, due to his active footwork in the ring and colorful personality. His crowd-pleasing technique catches the eyes of promoters Gavin (Robert Gleckler) and Stephens (Henry O''Neill). Under their management, Ritzy starts fighting in better venues and attracts the attention of Patricia Merrill (Claire Dodd). Patricia and Ritzy began an affair, which his wife Joan tolerates. When Ritzy learns that he has been winning because his opponents were paid to lose the fights, and that Joan agreed to these conditions, he leaves her. Ritzy is suspended for fighting in a fixed fight. Patricia loses interest in him because he is no longer successful. He gets a job attracting customers to a health lecture. Patricia is there and invites him to visit her, but he finds a pregnant Joan waiting at Patricia''s apartment. Ritzy, now determined to provide a good life for his child, accepts an offer to lose a fight. However, Ritzy puts up a good fight and knocks out his opponent after hearing that his wife has given birth to a boy. Impressed by the fight, Stephens visits him in the hospital and offers to put Ritzy back in the ring again, this time with legitimate fights.'
'western','Randy Bowers rides into town, and upon hearing a grossly off-key rendition of "Sobre las Olas" coming from a saloon, enters to investigate. He walks in to find the patrons and bartender all shot dead, with the song coming from a player piano, along with a note advising the local sheriffs not to investigate. The sheriffs arrive and immediately blame Randy for the massacre. Within the sheriff''s posse is Matt the Mute, who cannot speak and writes to communicate—using the same handwriting as was found in the note. Randy escapes with the help of Sally Rogers, the niece of the dead owner of the bar, who survived the massacre by hiding in a crawlspace. Randy runs from the sheriff and ends up in a cave in which the bandits have their hideout. They kidnap Sally, who escapes with Randy''s help. Matt the Mute is eventually exposed as the real killer and is himself killed when he enters the bar, which is filled with explosives. In the end, Randy and Sally are married, and they live happily ever after.'
'romance, comedy','Marigold Tate (Lupino) runs away from boarding school to stay with her retired aunt. She faces hostility from the locals, who display bigotry and snobbery towards her. During a witchcraft trial she is forced into a pool of water. The event is covered by newspaper editor Julian Barrow (Arlen), who falls in love with Tate. The couple eventually move to New York, where Barrow gets a job on a newspaper.'
'comedy','When the Titanic sinks, infant Dorothy Hunter (Miriam Hopkins) is left an orphan. She is brought up by John Connors (Henry Stephenson), whose wife was also lost in the disaster. He goes to such great lengths to protect her privacy that, though she has grown into adulthood and acquired the title of the richest girl in the world, the newspapers do not have an up-to-date photograph of her. She returns to America, but her friend and secretary, Sylvia Lockwood (Fay Wray), impersonates her in a meeting with the managers of her fortune. After seeing how happy Sylvia is with her new husband, Phillip (Reginald Denny), she broaches the topic of setting a wedding date with Donald (George Meeker), her longtime fiancé. He is forced to admit that he has fallen in love with someone else and was getting up the nerve to tell her. Since she is not the least bit in love, she congratulates him. However, it is too late to cancel the party in which she had planned to announce their wedding. At the party, Dorothy and Sylvia continue pretending to be each other. Dorothy meets Anthony "Tony" Travers (Joel McCrea) and, after winning $60 from him playing billiards, takes a great liking to him. However, stung by Donald''s confession that he was never sure he was attracted to her or her money, Dorothy decides to see if Tony would prefer her to the woman Tony thinks is her. She does all in her power to encourage him to court "Dorothy", even lending him money to do so. Connors warns her that she is being foolish, that no man could resist choosing such a seemingly wealthy and beautiful woman, but Dorothy is adamant. Sylvia and Phillip reluctantly play along. Tony is invited to a weekend retreat. Connors, Sylvia, and Phillip arrive a day late, using the bad weather as an excuse to give Dorothy time alone with Tony (though there are plenty of servants at the mansion). By this point, Dorothy is deeply in love. Tony tells her how much he likes her, but then adds that the richest girl in the world "wouldn''t have him anyway". Unable to bear being his second choice, she tells him that he would probably succeed if he proposed, so he does. Sylvia, having been forewarned by Dorothy, accepts him. That night however, Tony sees Phillip sneaking into Sylvia''s room. The next morning, he breaks the engagement. Dorothy claims that Phillip came into her bedroom, putting Tony to the ultimate test. When Phillip shows up for breakfast exceptionally pleased with himself, Tony punches him. Then, finally realizing who he really loves, he picks Dorothy up and carries her off to get married in spite of what he believes she did the night before.'
'romance','Lord Rexford (Herbert Marshall) leaves his American wife, Mary (Norma Shearer) at home while he travels on business to America. During his absence, Mary travels to the Riviera to visit Lord Rexford''s aunt. There she runs into an old flame, Tommie (Robert Montgomery)—a good-time, heavy-drinking sort—and he ardently pursues her, eventually drawing her into a compromising situation that causes scandalous press coverage. Upon his return, Lord Rexford is furious. His inability to believe Mary''s explanation, as well as the continued presence of Tommie, quickly drives a wedge between husband and wife. Rexford becomes cool towards Mary at home and avoids her, even waiting until she has left the nursery before entering to say goodnight to their young daughter. Seeking to escape the tension at home, Mary eventually goes out with friends, and Rexford uses the occasion to ask her for a divorce. When she tries again to explain, he tells her that her behavior no longer matters. After learning from a friend that Mary was largely blameless in the incident, Rexford changes his mind and sends a telegram begging her forgiveness, not knowing that his abandonment of Mary has at last driven her into the arms of Tommie. She tries to conceal this belated infidelity as they reconcile, but soon admits the truth when Tommie asserts that he has a claim on her. Rexford is furious again; this time she asks for the divorce. Mary plans to return to New York, refusing any settlement and sadly renouncing custody of her daughter and all claims. While approving the final agreement, she refuses to say goodbye to her daughter, as a last meeting would be unbearable to her. As she leaves, Lord Rexford asks her to return to him, and as they happily reconcile, their little girl bursts into the room and embraces her parents.'
'drama','Sadie McKee (Crawford) works part-time as a serving maid in the same household where her mother is a cook, and is admired by the son of her employer, lawyer Michael Alderson (Tone). However, when Michael talks badly of her boyfriend, Tommy Wallace (Gene Raymond), during a family dinner, Sadie openly denounces her employers as snobby and insensitive. Sadie then flees to New York City with Tommy, who was fired from his job in the Alderson factory for alleged cheating. Nearly broke, Sadie and Tommy are befriended in New York by Opal (Jean Dixon), a hardened club performer, who takes them to her boardinghouse. The next morning, Sadie leaves the boardinghouse to look for a job and makes plans with Tommy to meet at the marriage license bureau at noon. Soon after she leaves, however, neighbor Dolly Merrick (Esther Ralston) hears Tommy singing in the bathroom and seduces him into joining her traveling club act, which leaves town that morning. Heartbroken and embittered by Tommy''s desertion, Sadie packs her bags, but Opal implores her to stay and gets her a job as a dancer in a nightclub. Ten days later, Jack Brennan (Edward Arnold), a jovial, rich alcoholic, helps Sadie handle an abusive customer and then demands that she sit at his table, which he is sharing with a friend – Michael Alderson. Still angry at Michael, Sadie ignores his speech to leave his intoxicated companion alone and goes home with Brennan that evening. Soon after, Sadie marries the adoring Brennan and, while enjoying her newfound wealth, does her best to handle his constant drunkenness. One afternoon, Sadie, who has been following Tommy''s crooning career, goes to see him perform with Dolly at the Apollo Theater and is thrilled by the loving looks he gives her during his number. However, when Sadie returns home that evening, she learns from Michael and the family physician that unless Brennan stops drinking, he will die within six months. Sobered by the diagnosis, Sadie sacrifices her chance to reunite with Tommy and, after rallying the servants to her side, imprisons her husband in his house and forces him to quit drinking. Later Sadie goes with Michael and the now recovered Brennan to the club where she used to dance and is startled to see Dolly there performing without Tommy. After she confronts Dolly and finds out that Tommy was dumped in New Orleans, Sadie confesses to Brennan that she is in love with another man and wants a divorce. The understanding Brennan grants Sadie her request, and Michael, anxious to win her forgiveness, undertakes to find Tommy. Michael eventually locates Tommy in the city and deduces that he is suffering from tuberculosis. Aided by Michael, Tommy is admitted to a hospital. By the time Sadie is allowed to see him, Tommy''s condition has worsened, and he dies after telling her that it was Michael who had helped him. Four months later, Michael celebrates his birthday with Sadie and her mother, and looks into Sadie''s forgiving eyes before making his birthday wish.'
'historical drama','Sophia Frederica (Marlene Dietrich) is the daughter of a minor German prince and an ambitious mother. She is brought to Russia by Count Alexei (John Davis Lodge) at the behest of Empress Elizabeth (Louise Dresser) to marry her nephew, Grand Duke Peter (played as a half-wit by Sam Jaffe in his film debut). The overbearing Elizabeth renames her Catherine and reinforces the demand the new bride issue an heir to the throne. Unhappy in her marriage, Catherine finds solace with the womanizing Alexei (John Davis Lodge), first and foremost a paramour of the much-older Elizabeth. Rebuffed at this discovery, she takes lovers among the Russian Army to court its favor. When the old Empress dies seventeen years into their marriage, Peter ascends to the Russian throne and takes steps against his wife. Soon Catherine plots and exercises a coup, beginning a reign as Empress that will leave her known to history as Catherine the Great.'
'drama','Hester Prynne has a child out of wedlock and refuses to name the father (who is a respected citizen). For this, she is sentenced to wear a red letter "A" (for adultery). Her husband is long missing and presumed dead. When the husband returns and finds his wife with another man''s child, he sets out to torture them. At last, the father reveals himself, with a letter "A" carved in his chest.'
'drama','Attorney General Robert Sheldon and Ruth, the daughter of Governor W.H. Vincent have to keep their marriage a secret when investigator, Daniel Breeden, uncovers evidence that may show that the governor took a bribe from John F. Holdstock, an embezzling financier he pardoned. John''s private secretary, Willis Martin, who deposited the bribe money in the governor''s private bank account, tells Robert and Daniel that he knows of no business between John and the governor that would explain the money. Sheldon goes to the Governor''s Residence to tell Ruth about the situation, and that he is obligated to present the evidence to a legislative investigation committee. Ruth is certain that her father did not take a bribe, and that John can explain everything, but they learn by phone from Daniel that John has committed suicide. The Governor is concerned about the allegations, but his financial backer, Jim Lansdale, calms him down, and takes him to lunch. Before he does he makes a phone call in which he learns that Sheldon is at the Governor''s residence, but he does not tell the Governor this. In John''s papers, Robert finds a typed note which apparently provides a motive for the bribe: "My dear friend John ... the expense of maintaining my sockfarm has exceeded the income during the year ... the time for the matter we discussed has come. W.H.V." Robert rushes to show it to Ruth, and they decide to take it to police headquarters to be compared with a sample from the governor''s personal typewriter. Lt. Tom Nigard shows them the comparison: both samples are definitely from the same machine. Ruth returns home to tell her father about the evidence, and he adamantly denies that he wrote the note, giving her his word of honor. That night, Daniel goes to John''s office, where a very spooked Willis is still working. Daniel tries to calm him down, telling him "You have nothing to worry about, it''s almost over. I''ve seen you through today as I promised, haven''t I? ... You were splendid today in Robert''s office. You just stick to your story and remember that I''m taking care of you." Ruth goes to Robert''s apartment to tell him that she''s absolutely certain her father is innocent. While she is there, Sheldon''s secretary, Hazel Normandie leaves for the day, planning to meet Daniel, her boyfriend, outside the building. As he walks up to her, Daniel is shot dead. Ruth has seen everything from the window, and knows that Hazel didn''t fire the shot, but cannot tell the police because of her secret marriage to Robert: if it was learned that she was in his apartment at night, she fears that their marriage will be discovered. The police investigation of Daniel''s murder determines that the gun used to kill him belonged to Hazel, the same gun that Daniel took from her earlier in the day, saying that he was all the protection she needed. At a raucous session of the legislature, Representative McPherson, from the party opposing the Governor, accuses both the governor and Attorney General Sheldon of withholding evidence from the investigative committee. They are staunchly defended by Representative Grosvenor, but McPherson demands articles of impeachment against the governor and intensive investigation of Robert. Ruth observes it all from the gallery. Hazel is standing trial for the murder of Daniel, with the case about to go to the jury, but Ruth still refuses to testify, knowing that the revelation of her secret marriage with Robert would end his career. With little time to waste, Ruth goes to the apartment of Willis, who appears to be cracking up. Willis admits to her that John didn''t commit suicide, he was murdered, and says that he is willing to tell Robert so, but once at Robert''s office he runs away; Sheldon puts out an alert for the police to pick him up. Now, with no other choice, he and Ruth head to the courthouse, where the jury is voting, and find Hazel''s attorney. The judge reopens the case to allow Ruth to testify, and Hazel is acquitted. The next morning, Governor Vincent is annoyed that Ruth didn''t tell him about the marriage, but understands that the circumstances necessitated it. With the governor''s impeachment trial due to start soon, Jim Lansdale counsels the governor to resign, but he refuses. Meanwhile, the legislature demands that Attorney General Sheldon resign, but he, too, refuses. The police find Willis and bring him to Robert. Representative McPherson issues subpoenas for Willis and Robert to testify before the committee, where the existence of the typed letter apparently from the governor to John comes out. Willis admits that Daniel made him put the letter into John''s files, and then sent him to John to demand the money he lost in John''s crash. When John denied he had any money, Willis shot and killed him, and Daniel fixed it to look like suicide. The whole frame-up, according to Willia, is the work of Jim Lansdale, supposedly the governor''s friend and financial backer: ever since the governor vetoed a highway bill that would have made him millions, Lansdale had been working to bring down his old friend. It was Lansdale who typed the letter on the typewriter in the governor''s study. As the committee votes to drop the charges against the governor, Lansdale slowly leaves the room and kills himself. Afterwards, the governor gives his blessing to the marriage of his daughter and Robert, and they kiss.'
'drama, adventure','Toni and her father Matthew Martin live in the sequoia forests of California. While Toni is out walking she finds a puma, which she names ''Gato'' and a young fawn that she calls ''Malibu''. Toni and her adopted animals become friends quickly. After several years, Toni and her father leave the woods and Gato and Malibu are returned to the wild. Later, when Toni and her father return, they find that the animals in the area have been decimated by logging and hunting. With aggressive hunting parties roaming the area, it is up to Gato and Malibu to survive.[3]'
'comedy','Sally Bates (Isabel Jewell) leaves Texas, headed for Hollywood, in the 30’s. She is tempted to take a job as a mechanic, with Pop (Arthur Stone), on the highway; but, presses on in to town. She’s going to sleep in her old “Tin Lizzie”. But, after she saves Bill’s neck (Buster Crabbe), with her old six-shooter, during a botched hold-up. Bill (Buster Crabbe), takes her home, to live with his Mom, (Maidel Turner); and gives her a job at his drive-in restaurant. Sally’s friendly and easy going manner is very popular, with the customers; but, Bill gets jealous when Jack (Regis Toomey), the reckless, younger brother of his well-to-do girlfriend Clara (Sally Blane), starts paying Sally attention, following her around in his roadster. Sally is so humiliated, when Clara rips off the dress Jack gave her, at a nightclub, she ends up at his hotel room, married to Jack, after an ill-conceived night of drinking. Bill arrives, in the morning, to confront the drunken Jack, and take Sally home; but, when Jack is so drunk, he trips, and smashes his head, killing himself; Bill is under investigation for murder of the wealthy socialite.'
'comedy','Out sailing one day, J. Aubrey Piper saves a man from drowning. He overhears an impressed Amy Fisher''s remark and looks her up in New Jersey, irritating her family with his constant bragging but winning Amy, who marries him. A humble railroad clerk, Aubrey keeps pretending to be a more important man. He spends lavishly, piling up so much debt that he and Amy must move in with her parents. He gets fired by his boss Preston for making a wild offer on a piece of land, overstepping his authority by far. Amy is fed up and intends to leave him. Aubrey runs into her brother Joe, an inventor whose rust-prevention idea has received a firm offer of $5,000. Aubrey goes to the firm and demands Joe get $100,000 plus a 50% ownership interest. The company rescinds its offer entirely. Everybody''s fed up with Aubrey, but suddenly Joe rushes home to say the company''s changed its mind, offering him $50,000 plus 20%. And the railroad property paid off, too, so Aubrey''s offered his old job back, with a raise. He knows how lucky he''s been and that he should just shut up, but he just can''t.'
'drama','In the face of seriously declining railroad passenger travel, engineer Tom Caldwell presents to the president of the CB&D Railroad,[4] B.J. Dexter, a design for a revolutionary diesel-electric train that will increase efficiency and lower costs. Dexter opposes change, however, and the railroad''s conservative board of directors agrees with him, rejecting Tom''s design. Tom quits in frustration. Sure that Tom''s theory is sound, Dexter''s daughter Ruth convinces Ed Tyler, a locomotive manufacturer, to look into Tom''s design. Tyler is impressed with the concept and initiates immediate construction of a prototype. Soon Tom and his team prepare the Silver Streak for a well-publicized trial run with Dexter and Ruth aboard as passengers. The Silver Streak fails to attain even half of its projected speed of 100 miles per hour (160 km/h), however, and is even easily overtaken by a steam-powered freight train. An angry Dexter tells Tyler that all the Silver Streak is good for is an exhibit at the Century of Progress Exposition to recover his advertising expenses. Tom is baffled by the failure since all the engine components worked perfectly during assembly but Dexter stubbornly insists that the concept will never work. Furious with Dexter''s attitude, Tom quarrels with Ruth. Her brother Allen, who supported Tom''s idea, tells his father that he is quitting the railroad to take a job as a civil engineer with the Six Companies, Inc. constructing the Boulder Dam. Tom and Bronte, the engine''s builder, discover that the electrical generator acquired for the Silver Streak has a manufacturing flaw. After correcting the flaw, the engine produces even greater power than he had earlier predicted. He tries to telephone Ruth with the good news to reconcile with her, but she has left Chicago to travel by train to California. Ruth discovers en route that infantile paralysis (polio) has broken out among the dam''s construction crew and detours to the site only to find that Allen has contracted the disease. When a doctor informs her that Allen will die within 24 hours unless he receives treatment from an iron lung respirator, Ruth telephones her father to have the machine shipped to the dam by airplane. Dexter is told that the iron lung is too heavy for any transport airplane to carry and cannot be disassembled. Tom and Tyler persuade Dexter to take a gamble on the Silver Streak as Allen''s only hope. With less than twenty hours of time to travel 2,000 miles (3,200 km), the Silver Streak is given a cleared track and takes a shipment of Drinker Respirators out of Chicago. Tom includes Bronte on his crew, unaware that he is a foreign spy wanted for murder. As radio broadcasts track the progress of the "epic errand of mercy," the Silver Streak breaks records as it races south against time through the night. Nearing Boulder City, however, Bronte is revealed as a fugitive and sabotages the engine trying to stop the train, but instead causes it to speed out of control. Tom knocks the spy unconscious and regains control of the runaway train just before it arrives at the station.'
'drama','Three men have been convicted of the same murder of the, admittedly, quite reprehensible Floyd Cooper, and sit on death row awaiting execution the following morning. However, only one bullet could have struck the victim first, so only one of the three men is actually guilty of murder, since "the other two shot into a corpse," and so must be innocent; but which two? Professor Varney''s machine, a kind of lie detector, will determine who is guilty as each man tells the story of how he came to know, hate, and kill the victim.'
'comedy','Patsy Shaw (Moore) upsets a stuffy party at the home of wealthy Mr. Henry Breene (John Miltern) by stealing a necktie to win the scavenger hunt at Robert Benchley''s party across the street. Charlie Breene (Alexander Kirkland), Henry''s spoiled son, comes to retrieve his tie and becomes infatuated with Patsy. Three months later, Charlie gives Patsy a valuable diamond bracelet, which she reluctantly accepts. Back at her apartment, Lester Trout (Ross Alexander), a saxophone player, convinces Patsy that he is ill and has lost his job. Patsy gives Lester the bracelet as a loan, against the advice of her friends, who are suspicious of him. Charlie''s mother, Mrs. Henry Horace "Maggie" Breene (Pauline Frederick), fearful of her son''s relationship with a plebeian, arranges a party hoping Patsy''s lack of social graces will ruin Charlie''s affection for her. Finding the party boring, Patsy goes to the bar, where after a few drinks, she begins to entertain the guests who are slowly wandering in to escape the dull affair. Maggie, relying on the family patriarch, Uncle Jefferson Breene (Charles Winninger), to end the romance, announces his arrival, but she is aghast when Patsy fondly hugs the old man whom she knows as "Jonesie," the friend of one of her roommates. Maggie then asks family attorney Albert Wiggins (Garvie) to end the romance, no matter the cost. Wiggins pays Lester to tell Patsy that he is ill and in need of her help. Charlie is informed about what Patsy did with the bracelet and accuses her of being unfaithful. Lester convinces Patsy to marry him, but as soon as they wed, she finds Wiggins'' check for $5000 and realizes the truth. Patsy tears the check up, just as Charlie arrives with Jonesie, who arranges their reconciliation. Having only been married to Lester for ten minutes, Charlie has Wiggins arrange Patsy''s annulment.'
'comedy','Henry Dewlip is the heir to his late father''s prosperous automobile plant. He lets underlings run things while he indulges in wine, women and song, stringing women along. Julia Jelliwell is the latest woman to have the key to his apartment but there are problems, like her husband. Also the strait-laced Miss Smith, his latest secretary who secretly harbours a crush on him. She manages to spoil things with Julia and then to try to get him to take an interest in his car plant, spoiling a chance for Johnny to sell him a carburetor. Things fall flat when Henry finds that not only was Miss Smith previously married but she has a baby. This upsets Henry and the butler takes the chance to reinstate the old system that worked so well, so he calls Julia. At a mission for reforming souls, a fight ensues and both Henry and Julia end up in cells. Finally released, he now has a cold. Later he dictates to Miss Smith in a sharp voice and she says that her husband is dead. She shot him a year previously in Paris. Henry quickly falls out of love with her and goes back to Julia. Henry takes Johnny''s carburetor business into his motor business and takes up with Julia. Meanwhile, Johnny has been smitten by Miss Smith.'
'spy','In 1915 Berlin, the German high command is worried about ally Turkey. Recent British attacks on the vital Dardanelles shows signs of inside knowledge. Von Sturm (Lionel Atwill), the head of German intelligence, is ordered to find out if Ali Bey (C. Henry Gordon), the Turkish commander of the region, is the traitor. As his best agent has not been heard from in several weeks, von Sturm assigns Kruger (Leo G. Carroll) the task. Shortly afterwards, Annemarie (Myrna Loy), known by the code name "Fräulein Doktor", returns after completing her mission. She also informs von Sturm that fellow spy Mata Hari has fallen in love and therefore can no longer be trusted. She recommends that an incriminating message be sent using a code that she knows has been broken by the Allies. In addition, she uncovers Kruger as a British double agent known as K-6. When Kruger is arrested at his dentist contact''s office, another patient, American medical student Douglas Beall (George Brent), is also taken into custody, though he is later released. Just to be sure though, von Sturm orders Annemarie to make sure Beall is innocent. She arranges to be rescued from an unwanted "suitor" by Beall, who invites her to his hotel suite. During the course of the evening, he confesses he has fallen in love with her, now going by the name Helena Bohlen. Helena is attracted to him, but when she reads a coded message from von Sturm informing her that he has taken her advice regarding Mata Hari, she abruptly leaves. Beall persists however. When Helena boards the train to Constantinople, he follows her on the spur of the moment and continues courting her, despite her half-hearted attempts to discourage him. Her assistant Karl (Rudolph Amendt) watches with growing concern. As they near the Turkish border, she orders Karl to return to Germany so Beall can use his visa. To answer Beall''s persistent questions, Helena has to admit she is a German spy. This has no effect on his love. Meanwhile, she attracts Ali Bey with her beauty. When she accepts his invitation to dinner, she poses as British agent K-6 and negotiates for vital information. To gain his trust, she arranges for Beall to be framed as a spy by von Sturm (who has arrived after becoming concerned by Karl''s reports) and supposedly executed by firing squad, though a French prisoner is to be substituted. His suspicions (and jealousy) allayed, Ali Bey compromises himself and is arrested by his Turkish superiors. When von Sturm admits that he was unable to make the switch and that Beall really was shot, Helena loses her sanity and is confined in a nunnery. Refusing to accept the truth, she expects her lover to find her and take her away. It turns out that von Sturm had lied in an attempt to avoid losing his best agent. He had not dared to risk antagonizing a then-neutral America. In the final scene, Helena is reunited with Beall.'
'musical','The President of the United States decides that the true cause of the Great Depression (raging when the film was released) is a loss of "optimism" as a result of a plot by financiers and bankers who are getting rich from the Depression. The President then appoints Lawrence Cromwell as secretary for the newly created Department of Amusement. Cromwell creates an army of entertainers and sends them out across the country. Much of the action centers around Cromwell auditioning acts in his office (with interruptions from janitor "George Bernard Shaw" (played by Stepin Fetchit). At the end, as a musical production number breaks forth, Cromwell looks out of his office window and sees the Depression literally, instantaneously lift.'
'romance','In 1874 Australia, newly installed Police Inspector Radford boasts to wealthy Hugh Clarkson that he will capture the famous outlaw Stingaree, who has returned to the area. Hilda Bouverie is an impoverished servant working for the Clarksons. Mr. Clarkson is kind, but his wife treats Hilda and Annie, another servant, as menials. Mrs. Clarkson is excited by the news that Sir Julian Kent, a renowned British composer, is going to be her guest. She dreams of performing before him and becoming an opera star, but her singing is not good. Hilda begs to be allowed to sing as well, but Mrs. Clarkson turns her down. Meanwhile, Sir Julian stops over at a tavern, where Radford and his colleagues are drinking. When Stingaree enters, the policemen are suspicious of the stranger; he is searched, but no weapon is found. His sidekick Howie follows, only he is armed. They abduct Sir Julian. Unaware of this, Mrs. Clarkson goes off to meet Sir Julian. While she is away, Hilda, who dreams of being an opera singer herself, plays Sir Julian''s new song. When Stingaree enters the Clarkson residence to reconnoitre for a future robbery, she mistakes him for Sir Julian and sings for him. He is entranced, and praises her talent. When the Clarksons return, they are accompanied by Radford, who eventually recalls Stingaree. Unmasked, he flees, taking Hilda with him. When they reach his hideout, Stingaree is annoyed to find that Howie has let Sir Julian escape, foiling his attempt to get her an audition. Hilda tells him that her parents had the dream of singing, and that when they died she inherited the dream. Then Stingaree kisses her. Sir Julian attends a recital at the Clarksons house, with Mrs. Clarkson singing his song disastrously. Howie holds the guests at gunpoint while Stingaree accompanies Hilda on the piano. Sir Julian is greatly impressed by her singing. As the guests congratulate her, Stingaree and Howie slip away. However, Radford manages to shoot and arrest Stingaree. When a furious Mrs. Clarkson fires Hilda, Sir Julian invites her to Europe. Hilda refuses, unwilling to abandon Stingaree, but then she receives a letter from him telling her to pursue her dream, and that he gave up his freedom for her. She leaves, taking Annie with her. Under Sir Julian''s tutelage, she becomes a famous opera singer. Though she cannot forget Stingaree, she agrees to marry Sir Julian. The night before the wedding, however, she tells him that she cannot go through with it. She is going to give up her career and return to Australia. He persuades her to perform at a concert in Melbourne, hoping that the contrast with the fabulous opera houses of Europe will change her mind. Meanwhile, Stingaree escapes, and holds up the new Governor-General''s stagecoach. He borrows the man''s uniform and attends the concert disguised as him. When he is recognized, the police pursue him. He sneaks into Hilda''s dressing room. Hilda offers to give up her singing career for him. As the police try to break down the door, he picks her up in his arms and escapes through the window. They ride off together on his horse.'
'comedy','Against his better judgment, stockbroker Jimmy King proposes marriage to a Russian refugee called Nadja, promptly complicating his life. He ends up supporting Nadja and all of her family, then must come up with a clever way of getting them all to be self-reliant and out of his house.'
'drama','Joe, an amoral capitalist and boyfriend of Sarah Griswold, gets a job as a clerk in a New York City advertising agency and starts to work his way to the top. He is fired, but Sarah intervenes on his behalf and he manages to create an ad that earns him a promotion. He meets the mistress of his boss and decides he wants to win her from him. The company is in trouble, but Joe has invested wisely and sells out his boss to his competitor. He abandons Sarah and proposes to the mistress, who marries him. Joe becomes head of his agency, but because he neglects his new wife, she becomes the mistress of another man. He attempts suicide, but Sarah rescues him and nurses him back to health.'
'comedy','Ellery Cushing (William Collier, Sr.) has trouble at home, and at work. When he''s fired from the newspaper where he’s worked for fifteen years, his friend Phil (Russell Hopton) quits too, outraged. Together, they work from their “office”, on a park bench, until Phil can get Ellery a try-out, on a radio spot, as “Uncle Dudley”. The character is a big hit, with his folksy witticisms. Meanwhile, at home, Ma, Mrs. Cushing (Lucile Gleason), has her hands full with their daughter, Ruth (Gloria Shea), who has spurned Phil’s attentions for an aging Lothario, Jerry (Jameson Thomas). While their oldest son, Robert (William Janney), after turning down a job, has got mixed up with some “Red” rabble-rousers, in the park. Only their youngest son, Tommy (George P. Breakston), manages to stay out of trouble, doing his homework. Tommy thinks their Dad is alright, even better than “that guy on the radio”, who they don’t know is their father. It’s only after “Uncle Dudley” gets a concussion, after being hit with a brick, quelling a riot of “Reds”, in the park that his family begin to value his worth, and, Phil’s, if they all live to appreciate it.'
'drama, adventure','Tarzan and his wife Jane live in the jungle, along with their domesticated chimpanzee, Cheeta. Harry Holt and his business partner Martin Arlington, leading a large party of locals, meet up with them on their way to take ivory from an elephant burial ground. Holt had visited the burial ground with Tarzan on an earlier trip to the jungle, during which he had also met Jane. Holt had sought Tarzan out, as he was the only one who knew the way to the burial ground. On this trip, Holt tries to convince Jane to return with him to civilization, by bringing her gifts such as clothing and modern gadgets. Jane tells him she would rather stay with Tarzan. She does agree to convince Tarzan to act as their guide to the burial ground. When Tarzan calls an elephant to his side, Arlington gets the idea that they can use elephants as pack animals, enabling them to haul much more ivory. When Jane tries to convince Tarzan to call more elephants, she explains to him about hauling the ivory away. Tarzan, thinking that taking the ivory is profaning the burial ground, refuses to call any more elephants. In addition, he refuses to even lead them to the burial ground, now that he knows of their intent. Arlington and Holt have everything they own tied up in this venture to get the ivory, and are frantic to continue on. Jane explains that Tarzan knows nothing about money, so that would not matter to him. Arlington asks Holt how they had found the burial ground on his first trip, and Holt explains that they had followed a dying elephant. Seizing on that idea, Arlington shoots an elephant, mortally wounding it so that it can guide them to the burial grounds. Only Jane''s intervention keeps Tarzan from murdering Arlington. After being abandoned by Tarzan and Jane, Arlington and Holt lead their baggage carriers, led by Saidi, a friend of Jane and Tarzan''s, to the burial ground, following the wounded elephant. Elephants, aware of the impending disgrace of their sacred ground, turn up in the hundreds, and threaten to exterminate Holt and Arlington''s party. Tarzan and Jane arrive in time to save them, after which Arlington feigns repentance, promising to leave the next day without the ivory. Satisfied, Tarzan agrees to lead their exit, and sends the elephants away. Early the next morning, Arlington ambushes Tarzan, shooting him out of a tree. Tarzan falls into the water, and Arlington thinks he has killed him. After Arlington leaves and returns back to the group, a hippopotamus rescues a semi-conscious Tarzan from under the water and carries him to a group of Chimpanzees, which tend to him. Tarzan has received a head wound from one of Arlington''s bullets, but it was a grazing shot, which has left him very weak. The head chimpanzee applies sap from a local plant to the wound, staunching the bleeding. Arlington returns to the group, claiming that he saw Tarzan being taken unawares by an alligator, and killed. Jane distraught over losing her love, agrees to return to civilization. With Tarzan out of the way, Arlington and Holt have their baggage carriers each take a tusk from the burial ground, and they begin to head back. Cheeta leaves Jane and goes off to look for Tarzan. Chased by a lion, Cheeta escapes and comes upon the chimpanzee group tending to Tarzan. As Tarzan recuperates, the safari makes its way through the jungle. Cheeta returns and lets Jane know that Tarzan is alive. However, shortly after the safari is confronted by a local tribe of "lion men", who kill two of the bearers, and intend to kill the entire safari. Under cover of gunfire, most of the safari makes it to the cover of some nearby caves, set into the face of a rocky cliff. The bearer who was carrying the ammunition crate is killed on the way. When Saidi makes an attempt to retrieve the crate, he is captured by the lion men. Cheeta escapes and runs off to tell Tarzan Trapped in the caves, the safari watch in horror the next morning as Saidi is staked out to a tree, as the lion men intend to use him as bait to call lions to attack the safari. When Holt rushes out to save him, he is wounded by a spear thrown by one of the lion men, who have taken up positions in the trees surrounding the glade. Wounded, he begins to free Saidi when the lions show up, who tear him and Saidi to pieces. Meanwhile, Cheeta has returned to Tarzan, who while still weak, sets off after Cheeta. The lions attempt to get at the safari in the caves, but are held off by Jane and Arlington and one of the bearers. When the bearer goes down on a ledge, Arlington goes out to save him, and he is attacked by a lion who has come from above the caves. Arlington is killed, but Jane kills the charging lion. As the large pack of lions becomes more aggressive, Tarzan and the chimpanzees arrive. The chimpanzees begin to throw the lion men out of the trees, where they are ravaged by the lions. Jane is holding off several lions, killing two of them, before she runs out of ammo. As she is about to be attacked by the last lion, Tarzan arrives and wrestles with it, killing it with his knife. Shortly after, a large herd of elephants arrives, trampling the pride of lions, killing several and running the remainder off. With the lion men and the lions routed, the elephants along with Tarzan, Jane, and Cheeta, take up the ivory and return it to the burial ground.'
'mystery','Tillie Whim (ZaSu Pitts), a timid stage assistant to The Great La Salle (William Gaxton) in a small mentalist act playing a Vaudeville theater, is harassed, bullied, and undermined by the act''s co-star, primadonna Lottie (Tamara Geva). When Lottie finally attempts to fire Tillie after a performance, La Salle fires Lottie instead. The remaining troupe are then hired backstage by an audience member (Bruce Cabot) to debunk another mentalist, whom he accuses of exploiting his friend, a grief-stricken woman who has recently lost her husband in a plane crash. Tillie is promoted to Lottie''s old role as medium, but unexpectedly deviates from the script when the spirit of the departed tells her that the plane crash was murder.'
'drama','Joe White is a successful white-collar worker whose home contains his loving wife, five children (four of them grown) and a maid. The family is so self-absorbed with their own activities that he frequently feels left out, and any attempts he makes at family activity is overruled by their previously-made plans (which he was not informed of). They also generally take advantage of him, forcing him to do menial tasks like fixing the furnace, or taking the streetcar because the kids want to use the car. Despite all of this, he remains generally upbeat. One night while his kids are throwing a party, his former secretary, Alice, stops by the house, not realizing it''s his. They rekindle their friendship and go to the show Joe wanted to take his wife to; when he returns, he finds he wasn''t even missed. They agree to meet once a week, just to sit and talk; Joe tells his family that he''s going to "Lodge Night" on those evenings. Then one night, the kids spot him going into her home and immediately assume he''s having an affair. Their anger threatens to tear the family apart.'
'comedy, drama, crime','Nick Charles (William Powell), a retired detective, and his wife Nora (Myrna Loy) are attempting to settle down. They are based in San Francisco but decide to spend the Christmas holidays in New York. There Nick is pressed back into service by Dorothy Wynant (Maureen O''Sullivan), a young woman whose father was an old client of Nick''s. The man, Clyde Wynant (the title''s "thin man"), was supposed to be on a secret business trip and promised to be home before his daughter''s wedding, but has mysteriously vanished. She convinces Nick to take the case, much to the amusement of his socialite wife. It starts out as a missing person case, but when Wynant''s former secretary and love interest, Julia Wolf, is found dead, evidence points to Wynant as the prime suspect. Dorothy refuses to believe that her father is guilty. The detective uncovers clues and eventually solves the mystery of the disappearance. The murderer is revealed in a classic dinner party scene that features all of the suspects. A skeletonized body, found during the investigation, had been assumed to be that of a "fat man" because it was wearing oversized clothing. The clothes are revealed to be planted, and the identity of the body is accurately determined by an old war wound in one leg. It turns out that the body belongs to a "thin man": the missing Wynant. The real killer is uncovered at the dinner party, before he almost takes the life of someone who knows too much.'
'comedy','On her way to New York to find financial backing for her impoverished country, the Ruritanian Kingdom of Taronia, Princess "Zizzi" Catterina (Sylvia Sidney) falls ill with the mumps and has to be quarantined for a month. In desperation, financier Richard Gresham (Edward Arnold), who is planning to issue $50 million in Taronian bonds, hires unemployed lookalike actress Nancy Lane (Sidney again) to impersonate the princess, and offers her a large bonus if she changes the mind of the chief opponent of the financial transaction, newspaper publisher Porter Madison III (Cary Grant).'
'drama, romance','Tony and Jim Dunlap are happily married. However, the dull-but-dependable Jim had been in love with Fran Harper, a school friend of Tony''s, before he was married to Tony, and Fran has just been divorced. Now Fran is coming their way, bringing her pick-up boyfriend Mort Holmes along, and she intends to steal Jim from Tony. Tony sees Fran as a reminder of her own mother, who left Tony''s father and caused him to drink himself to death. Thus, Tony is determined to avoid meeting Fran. However, they meet at the house of their friends Jud and Bee McCrae, and Fran goes off with Jim after everyone has left. When Tony finds that Jim and Fran have been together, she threatens to divorce him. However, Tony eventually beats Fran at her own game, and wins Jim back.'
'comedy, drama','Personal and professional problems eventually drive a man to attempt suicide.'
'western','The film opens with an apparent bank robbery terminated when the driver of the alleged getaway car is fatally shot by a sniper. Inside the car is the late driver''s daughter, Tiny Norton who is adopted by rancher Ted Wright and his Three Stooges type ranch hands, Tom, Dick and Harry, the "Three Radio Nuts" who spend their time impersonating radio stars. The robbery and assassination of Tiny''s father was orchestrated by a cruel and corrupt banker in cahoots with a crooked sheriff.'
'comedy','Gangster Lee Lother (Sidney Blackmer) is shot and killed during an ocean liner cruise, and we''re introduced in flashback to the interwoven stories and characters of the suspects: con-man and jewel-thief Jimmy Brett and his accomplice, a wife who bids goodbye to her husband without realizing he''ll stowaway to spy on her, the star of the ship''s entertainment revue and her brother with gambling debts, and the Inspector who interrupts his vacation to solve the case. The film''s many musical numbers include a Busby Berkeley-like number with chorus girls in geometric patterns filmed from overhead. A song performed by The Boswell Sisters titled "Rock and Roll", written by Richard A. Whiting and Sidney Clare, is sometimes credited as the first use of that term in a popular song,[1] although in this case the lyrics referred to the motion of the ocean.[2]'
'adventure','Young Jim Hawkins (Jackie Cooper) and his mother (Dorothy Peterson) run the Admiral Benbow, a tavern near Bristol, England. One dark and stormy night, during a birthday celebration, the mysterious Billy Bones (Lionel Barrymore) arrives and drunkenly talks about treasure. Soon after, Bones is visited by Black Dog (Charles McNaughton) then Pew (William V. Mong), and drops dead, leaving a chest, which he bragged contained gold and jewels. Instead of money, Jim finds a map that his friend Dr. Livesey (Otto Kruger) realizes will lead them to the famous Flint treasure. Squire Trelawney (Nigel Bruce) raises money for a voyage to the treasure island and they set sail on Captain Alexander Smollett''s (Lewis Stone) ship Hispaniola. Also on board is the one-legged Long John Silver (Wallace Beery) and his cronies. Even though Bones had warned Jim about a sailor with one leg, they become friends. During the voyage, several fatal "accidents" happen to sailors who disapprove of Silver and his cohorts. Then, the night before landing on the island, Jim overhears Silver plotting to take the treasure and kill Smollett''s men. Jim goes ashore with the men, and encounters an old hermit named Ben Gunn (Chic Sale), who tells him that he has found Flint''s treasure. Meanwhile, Smollett (Lewis Stone) and his loyal men flee to Flint''s stockade on the island for safety. Silver''s men then attack the stockade when Smollett refuses to give them the treasure map. While the situation looks hopeless, Jim secretly goes back to the Hispaniola at night, sails it to a safe location and shoots one of the pirates in self-defense. When he returns to the stockade, Silver''s men are there and Silver tells them that a treaty has been signed. The pirates want to kill Jim, but Silver protects him. Dr. Livesey comes for Jim, but the boy refuses to break his word to Silver not to run away. The next day the pirates search for the treasure hold and when they find it, it is empty. When some of the pirates mutiny against Silver, Livesey (Otto Kruger) and Gunn (Charles "Chic" Sale) join him in the fight. Smollett then sails home with the treasure, which Gunn had hidden in his cave, and with Silver as his prisoner. Unable to stand by and let his friend be hanged, Jim frees Silver. As he sails away, Silver promises to hunt treasure with Jim again some day, as Honest John Silver.'
'comedy','Ebullient Broadway impresario Oscar Jaffe (John Barrymore) takes an unknown lingerie model named Mildred Plotka (Carole Lombard) and makes her the star of his latest play, despite the grave misgivings of everyone else, including his two long-suffering assistants, accountant Oliver Webb (Walter Connolly) and the consistently tipsy Owen O''Malley (Roscoe Karns). Through intensive training, Oscar transforms his protegée into the actress "Lily Garland", and both she and the play are resounding successes. Over the next three years, their partnership spawns three more smash hits, and Lily is recognized as a transcendent talent. Then Lily tries to break off their professional and personal relationship, fed up with Oscar''s overpossesiveness and control of every aspect of her life. Oscar talks her out of it, promising to be more trusting and less controlling in the future. Instead, he secretly hires a private detective agency run by McGonigle to watch her every move, even to the point of tapping her telephone. When she finds out, it is the last straw; she leaves for Hollywood and soon becomes a big movie star. Without Lily, Oscar produces flop after flop. After one such disappointment, to avoid being imprisoned for his debts, he is forced to disguise himself to board the luxurious Twentieth Century Limited train travelling from Chicago to New York City''s Grand Central Terminal. By chance, Lily Garland boards the train at a later stop with her boyfriend George Smith (Ralph Forbes). After prevaricating, Oscar sees a chance to restore his fortunes and salvage his relationship with Lily. Oscar schemes to get her to sign a contract with him. However, Lily wants nothing more to do with him. She is on her way to see Oscar''s rival (and former employee), Max Jacobs (Charles Lane (actor)), to star in his play. However, Oscar manages to get George to break up with her. Knowing that Lily offers him one last chance at professional success he tells her of his wish for her to play Mary Magdalene in his new play; "sensual, heartless, but beautiful – running the gamut from the gutter, to glory – can you see her Lily? – the little wanton ending up in tears at the foot of the cross. I''m going to have Judas strangle himself with her hair." Then Oliver thinks he has found somebody to finance Oscar''s project, fellow passenger Mathew J. Clark (Etienne Girardot), not realizing that Clark is a harmless escapee from a mental asylum. When Oscar is slightly wounded in a scuffle with Clark, he pretends to be dying and gets a distraught Lily to sign his contract. The film ends with their first rehearsal, where Oscar reverts to his usual self, domineering a desperate Lily.'
'comedy, musical','Agent Russell Edward ''Rush'' Blake (Pat O''Brien) is able to promote the singing tenor waiter Buddy Clayton (Dick Powell) as a major radio star whilst Buddy''s wife Peggy Cornell (Ginger Rogers) loses out. In the end, Peggy does not lose Buddy to his "twenty million sweethearts" - his female fans.[1]'
'drama','Upper World tells the story of Alexander Stream (Warren William), a wealthy railroad tycoon, who is devoted to his wife (Mary Astor), has an affair with a chorus girl (Ginger Rogers), which leads to blackmail and murder. Alexander (Alex) Stream is a multimillionaire. While he is devoted to his wife, Hettie (Astor) and son, Tommy (Dickie Moore), she is too busy playing attending and throwing society functions to pay much attention to her husband. While out in his yacht, he encounters a young woman, Lilly Linda (Rogers) who is drowning in the ocean. The crew throws her a life preserver and pulls her out of the water, gets her a towel and loans her some of his clothes. He gives her a ride home in his limousine and she invites him to come in so she can give the clothes back to him. To thank him, she offers to make him breakfast and he ends up skipping all of his morning appointments to have breakfast with her. On the way to his appointments, his car is stopped for speeding by Officer Moran (Sidney Toler), an incorruptible law and order beat cop. Alex pulls some strings and gets Moran demoted. Meanwhile, when Alex gets back home his wife is in the middle of throwing a large costume party. She asks him to come to the party and Alex tells her that he misses spending time alone with her. Hettie replies that for her, maintaining her social position is as important as his career is to him. Alex declines putting in an appearance at the party and instead plays with Tommy. The next day, he makes dinner reservations at an expensive restaurant and special arrangements for a cake for his and Hattie''s 14th wedding anniversary. When he calls Hettie to invite her to meet him in the city for dinner, she tells him she can''t make it because she has other dinner plans already. As his driver is taking him home, Alex sees a picture of Linda showing she is headlining a show. Afterwards, he stops backstage to invite her to share the anniversary dinner with him. At dinner she realizes that he asked her because his wife wasn''t able to come. After an innocent dinner, Oscar, his driver (Andy Devine) brings him home and he and Alex discuss that neither of them will tell anyone about his dinner with Lilly. The next morning, he wakes up and finds that his wife has made arrangements to send Tommy to a sleep away summer camp 200 miles away. He expresses his displeasure but Hettie reminds him that it''s necessary for their social position. After Tommy leaves, Hettie tells Alex that she''s going away for two weeks with some of her society friends. Feeling depressed and at loose ends, Alex makes another date with Lilly to go for a ride in his airplane. In the meantime, Lilly''s manager and boyfriend, Louie Colima (J. Carrol Naish) is encouraging her to have an affair with Alex so the two of them can blackmail him. After a minor accident, Lilly and Alex kiss. A few months later, Alex has put Lilly in an luxury apartment and purchases her a $12,000 diamond bracelet for her birthday. On the way to dinner, Hettie finds the gift box while straightening Alex''s tie and assumes it''s for her. In the meantime, Louie tells Lilly that it''s time to blackmail Alex and breaks open her bedroom door and slaps her to the ground when she refuses to give him the letters. He picks up a gun that Lilly pointed at him and tosses it in a chair on his way to the door. At the door he comes face to face with Alex who tells him that he and Lilly were planning to blackmail him all along. Lilly comes into the room and is clearly upset because she is sincerely in love with him. Alex demands that Lou give him the letters and in the ensuring tussle, Lou fires his gun at Alex but kills Lilly instead. When his gun jams, Alex picks up the gun Lou tossed in the chair and kills him. He makes the shootings look like a murder suicide and erases evidence that he was there. When he gets home, Hettie is waiting for him to tell him that not only is she bringing Tommy home from military school but that she realizes that she has been ignoring him and wants to spend more time together. Unbeknownst to Alex, Moran, now walking the beat, saw his car parked illegally in front of Lilly''s building and watched him drive away. While everyone else is saying it''s a murder suicide, Moran puts pieces together and believes that someone else committed the murders. When the murders become front-page news, Alex goes to the building and pays off the maintenance man to say that he never saw him come to the building. By this point, Moran is suspicious that Alex is the killer so he contrives to get Alex''s fingerprints to compare them against the fingerprints found in the apartment. When he brings this to the detectives, he finds out that they have been paid off. He causes a scene in the office and the chief of detectives has him taken to jail. The reporters follow him to the jail cell because he has been yelling that Alex is involved with the murder. Several reporters show up with a fingerprint technician and Alex''s house where he is having a large party to announce his acquisition of another railroad company. When they come in, they demand that he give them his fingerprints to clear his name. When he can''t find a way out of it, Alex submits his prints knowing they will match prints found in Lilly''s apartment. After giving his fingerprints, he returns to the party. The technician has compared the fingerprints while waiting in the hallway and when they match, the policemen who accompanied them arrest him for murder. When the press crashes through the door asking him for a statement, Alex tells the assembled company that he is being arrested and charged with murder. While waiting for the verdict to come back, he is summoned to the judge''s chambers and finds that Hettie and Tommy are there. Hettie tells him that they are leaving for Europe the next day and she wanted to give him a chance to say goodbye to Tommy. She tells him that she could forgive him if it weren''t for the affair. He responds by telling her that he was very lonely. He tells Hettie that while he was fond of Lilly, he still loves Hettie and her constant unavailability made him lonely enough to reach out to someone else for the attention he wasn''t getting at home. He returns to the courtroom where the jury verdict is beginning to be read. The scene cuts to a ship. Tommy is talking to Oscar about traveling to England. The camera draws back to show Alex sitting next to Hettie on the deck. This trip is a second honeymoon and the two of them vow to always take time for each other and their marriage.'
'comedy','Well respected local good guy, Feet Samuels finds himself heavily in debt due to an uncharacteristic gambling binge. Feet decides the only way to settle the bill is by selling his body to an ambitious doctor who agrees to allow him one last month to live life to the fullest, then kill himself.'
'drama, biography','After seeing his poor father lose his land and be whipped to death for protesting, young Pancho Villa stabs one of the killers, then heads off into the hills of Chihuahua, Mexico during the 1880s. As a grown man, Villa and a band of rebel bandits, including his trusted ally Sierra, kill wealthy landowners and become heroes to their fellow "peons." A wealthy aristocrat, Don Felipe, arranges an introduction for Villa to the distinguished and eloquent Francisco Madero, who resents what has become of Mexico under the rule of president Porfirio Díaz and persuades Villa to help him fight for liberty, not just for personal gain. The coarse and illiterate Villa is humbled in the presence of Madero and agrees to fight for his cause. He also is attracted to Don Felipe''s beautiful sister Teresa, although there are many women in Villa''s life, including one he is married to, Rosita. Villa''s exploits are made even more colorful by an American newspaper reporter, Johnny Sykes, to whom Villa has taken a great liking. While drunk, Sykes is misinformed and reports that Villa has already overtaken the village of Santa Rosalia in a great victory for his men. Disobeying the orders of Madero and the arrogant General Pascal, simply to help his newspaper friend, Villa stages a raid on Santa Rosalia, as well as on Juarez. Madero ultimately assumes office in Mexico City, then commands Villa to disband his personal army. Villa agrees, but when Sierra kills a bank teller just so Villa can withdraw his money, Villa himself ends up sentenced to death. A gloating General Pascal mocks the way Villa pleads for his life, then reads a telegram from Madero, ordering that Villa instead be exiled from the country. Alone and drunk in El Paso, Texas, feeling forsaken by his homeland, Villa is visited by Sykes, who informs him that Madero has been assassinated by the power-mad Pascal and his men. Villa returns to Mexico and rebuilds his own army, recruiting tens of thousands to ride by his side. Together they storm the capital, where Pascal is subjected to a particularly gruesome death. Villa takes what he wants, but when Teresa resists and he physically assaults her, she draws a gun that her brother Don Felipe has given her for protection. Sierra intervenes and murders her. Villa appoints himself president but is ineffectual, unable to restore Madero''s dream of land reform for Mexico''s poor. He ultimately agrees to step aside and go back to where he belongs, including to his wife. Before he can, with Sykes by his side, Villa is gunned down by Don Felipe out of revenge for his sister. Sykes vows to keep Villa''s memory alive, telling his dying friend that he is no longer news, but history.'
'drama','Russian Prince Dmitri Nekhlyudov (Fredric March) seduces innocent young Katusha Maslova (Anna Sten), a servant to his aunts. After they spend the night together in the greenhouse, Dmitri leaves the next morning, outraging Katusha by not leaving a note for her, only money. When she becomes pregnant, she is fired, and when the baby is born, it dies and is buried unbaptized. Katusha then goes to Moscow, where she falls into a life of prostitution, poverty and degradation. Dmitri, now engaged to Missy (Jane Baxter), the daughter of the wealthy judge, Prince Kortchagin (C. Aubrey Smith), is called for jury duty in Kotchagin''s court for a murder trial. The case is about a merchant who has been killed, and Dmitri is astonished to see that Katusha is one of the defendants. The jury finds that she is guilty of "giving the powder to the merchant Smerkov without intent to rob", but because they neglected to say without intent to kill, even though the jury intended to free her, the judge sentences her to five years hard labor in Siberia. Feeling guilty about abandoning Katusha years before, and wanting to redeem her and himself as well, the once-callous nobleman attempts to get her released from prison. He fails in his efforts, so he returns to the prison to ask Katusha to marry him. When he doesn''t show up on the day the prisoners are to be transported, Katusha gives up hope, but then he appears on the border of Siberia where the prisoners are being processed: he has divided his land among his servants and wants to "live again" with her forgiveness, help and love.[1][2][3]'
'comedy, musical','Spoiled socialite Doris Worthington (Lombard) is sailing the Pacific with her friend Edith (Merman) and her Uncle Hubert (Errol), while being courted by Prince Michael (Milland) and Prince Alexander (Henry). She is bored, however, and finds entertainment in verbal sparring with one of the sailors, Stephen Jones (Crosby). During one of their battles, Doris slaps Stephen, who retaliates by kissing her and gets fired. In a drunken accident, Uncle Hubert runs the yacht onto a reef in the fog. Stephen rescues the unconscious Doris as the others flee the capsized ship, and everyone makes it to the tropical island although the princes claim credit for Doris’s rescue. Unfortunately, the only person with any survival skills is Stephen, and the socialites are quick to demand that he gather food and build shelter. Stephen attempts to divide up the work but the haughty passengers snub his leadership so he fends for himself. The smells from Stephen’s dinner of mussels and coconuts soon entice the hungry passengers to gather their own food; all except Doris, who tricks Stephen to get his food and gets slapped in turn. The group is forced to cooperate, although Doris remains indignant and infuriated. Doris discovers that there are other people on the island when she falls prey to a lion trap in the jungle: zany Gracie (Allen) and scientific husband George (Burns) live on the other side of the not-so-deserted isle. She refuses their offer to stay in favor of getting even with Stephen. Doris arranges for some tools and clothes to float past Stephen, who is elated at his "discovery" and quickly builds a house. The couple admit their love that evening but feel mismatched. Two rescue boats arrive. In the hubbub, Stephen finds out that the clothes and tools came from Doris and is angry at being the butt of the joke. Stephen takes a different boat than Doris. As Doris watches the princes resume their womanizing ways on board ship, she realizes she misses Stephen. She changes ships to join him, for better or for worse.'
'drama','Ten-year-old Bobby (Frankie Thomas) and a group of friends see Bobby''s mother (Karen Morley) kissing a man not her husband. Despite serious concerns about Bobby, a divorce ensues and Bobby, although thoroughly disenchanted with his mother, is sent away with her where month after month despite all her efforts he grows more depressed, dreaming of reunification with his beloved father (Edward Arnold). On returning to his father at vacation, he finds him preoccupied with an impending second marriage. Bobby suffers a serious breakdown but is nevertheless packed off to military school.'
'drama','Ted Hayden (John Wayne) poses as the deceased killer Gat Ganns in order to learn the identity of his father''s murderer and to find his long-lost kid brother.'
'drama','Two stokers who work on the same ship become rivals for the love of a woman who works in a saloon in the tough Barbary Coast area of San Francisco.[2]'
'comedy, drama','Alick Wylie (David Torrence) and his sons David (Donald Crisp) and James (Dudley Digges) are greatly concerned about Alick''s daughter Maggie (Helen Hayes), who has been jilted by a minister. She is less than heartbroken, but they fear for her marital prospects at the age of 27. When they catch poor but ambitious 21-year-old John Shand (Brian Ahern) breaking into their house late at night to use their library, they seize the opportunity. Impressed by his initiative, they offer him £300 to finance his studies provided that he give Maggie the option of marrying him after five years. After some thought, he agrees. The Wylies insist he sign a formal contract. As the five years draw to an end, he stands for Parliament and wins. Two of the "quality", la Contessa la Brierre (Lucile Watson) and her niece Lady Sybil Tenterden (Madge Evans), show up to congratulate him. Lady Sybil had lately shown an unexpected interest in politics after seeing the handsome victor. On the train to London to take his seat, John is given the opportunity by Maggie to back out of their agreement, but he avers that a bargain is a bargain and marries her. Lady Sybil helps forward John''s political career, and the two fall in love. Maggie too works diligently and craftily on her husband''s behalf, planting ideas that he takes for his own. John has become a financial expert, and is for the country dropping the gold standard, which is against the policy of his Labour Party. When the influential politician Charles Venables (Henry Stephenson) comes to sound him out, Maggie sees him first and takes it upon herself to state that John would resign from the party rather than betray his principles. Venables is delighted. Matters finally come to a head on the Shands'' second wedding anniversary, with John telling Maggie and her family that he and Lady Sybil are in love. He insists on writing a letter of resignation from Parliament. Maggie persuades him to postpone their public separation for a month so he can finish writing his book. She arranges for him to stay at the estate of her good friend, la Contessa; secretly, she also asks la Contessa to invite Lady Sybil as well. Things turn out the way she had hoped: John and Lady Sybil''s ardor does not survive having to spend an entire month together. Meanwhile, Maggie goes to see Venables. She presents him with John''s letter, telling him that her husband has resigned over the gold standard. Venables is so impressed he offers John an important post in the coalition government he is forming. When John finds out what Maggie has done, he is somewhat offended. However, she assures him that "what every woman knows" is that behind every successful man is a woman who secretly strives to help him. In the end, he sees things her way, and is cajoled into laughing for the first time in his life.'
'drama, crime','Buck Rankin (Jack Holt) as a shady carnival promoter. He was jailed for a major crime just after learning that his wife is pregnant. Released after twenty five years behind bars, Rankin is anxious to make contact with his daughter Sandra (Jean Arthur), who knew nothing of his existence, since Rankin convinced the warden of the prison to send his wife a letter telling her that he was killed trying to escape.[1]'
'drama','While Jack Brookfield (John Halliday) runs a gambling gathering at nighttime in his Kentucky house, his daughter Nancy (Judith Allen) is frequently visited by and becomes engaged to young Northern architect Clay Thorne (Tom Brown). His mother (Olive Tell), an old friend of Brookfield''s, arrives from Baltimore to save her son from the vice of gambling, but when Brookfield shows her her son and his daughter in the garden, she is delighted. Brookfield announces to the gentlemen that for that evening the gambling is over early, due to a feeling he has. After everybody has left, Brookfield''s old friend (and customer) Lew Ellinger (Richard Carle) proposes to play poker. But Brookfield answers he is not a gambler. Ellinger deals the cards anyway. To his astonishment, Brookfield tells him exactly what he has in his hands. When it is repeated a second time, Brookfield tells him that he cannot tell what cards he has if Ellinger doesn''t look at them. When this second time he tells again the card Ellinger has, Ellinger asks Brookfield how he does it. Brookfield does not know how he does it, but he does not gamble because of this gift, which saddens Ellinger. Meantime, the police chief (Frank Sheridan) gathers his men to raid Brookfield''s house. When they arrive, however, they can find no trace of gambling activity. After Nancy turns in for the night, Clay becomes terrified when he sees a cats-eye ring (collateral put up by Lew) on Brookfield''s finger. This causes Brookfield to question Clay''s manhood. Afterward, Brookfield receives a visit from Frank Hardmuth (Ralf Harolde). Hardmuth has a grudge against him and is determined to show that he is the boss of the town. When Hardmuth states he is good enough for Nancy, Brookfield punches him and tells him that one day a man will come in his office and shoot him. Clay overhears him. Brookfield tells him, after Hardmuth leaves, that his fear is absurd. He hypnotizes the young man without realizing it. Judge Martin Prentice (Guy Standing) is Brookfield''s last visitor that night. Brookfield finds in him an understanding person concerning his gift. Prentice warns him to be more careful about hypnotizing people. Clay goes to Hardmuth''s office and shoots him dead, without knowing what he is doing. His loved ones search for a defense attorney, but nobody takes hypnotism seriously or believes it is grounds for a defense. Finally, they think of Judge Prentice, who is retired, but would certainly understand how to manage the case. Prentice does not want to take the case, but the ghost of Margaret Price (Gertrude Michael), Mrs. Thorne''s mother and Prentice''s love, persuades him to change his mind. The trial goes badly for the defense; even the testimony of Dr. von Strohn (Ferdinand Gottschalk), an eminent expert in hypnosis, cannot turn the tide. Finally, in desperation, Prentice has Brookfield hypnotize the openly skeptical jury foreman (William Frawley) into shooting the district attorney (the gun has blanks). The jury reaches the verdict "not guilty", and Clay is a free man.'
'drama, crime','A radio star takes a vacation and is later found murdered. Barbara (Dell) is accused of murder, while Jerry (Hemingway) tries to prove her innocent.'
'drama, crime','Released from prison on parole, John Bradley plans to live alone quietly in a cabin in the country. He is visited there by the sheriff''s daughter, Helen Grant, on whose account he had got into a fight and killed a man in the past. While he is trying to persuade her to leave, a beautiful disheveled woman in evening dress bursts in. This is Louise Loring, who has run away on foot from her rich protector, Tony Robson. With a sidekick, Robson pursues her and the sidekick shoots Bradley’s dog. Bradley knocks out the sidekick and Robson reports this to the local sheriff, who wants Bradley back in jail. Tipped off by Helen, Bradley and Louise flee to the New York flat of an old cellmate, Tommy Logan, and there fall in love. Traced by the police, Bradley escapes with a bullet in his shoulder. Meanwhile Robson has charged Louise with theft in order to trace her and then tries to persuade her to go back to him. Since he is of a vindictive nature and she suspects him of trying to harm Bradley further, she agrees. Bradley arrives with Tommy Logan for a showdown just as Robson decides to murder his sidekick so as to worsen the case against Bradley. The two burst in and expose his plot at the last moment.'
'comedy, musical','Wonder Bar is set in a Parisian nightclub, with the stars playing the ‘regulars’ at the club. The movie revolves around two main story points, a romance and a more serious conflict with death, and several minor plots. All of the stories are enlivened from time to time by extravagant musical numbers. The more serious story revolves around Captain Von Ferring (Robert Barrat), a German military officer. Ferring has gambled on the stock market and lost, now broke after dozens of failed investments, he is at the Wonder Bar to try and pull a one-night stand before killing himself the following day. Al Wonder (Al Jolson) knows about Ferring''s plan. Meanwhile, an elaborate romance is unfolding. The bar''s central attraction is the Latin lounge dancing group led by Inez (Dolores del Río). Al Wonder has a secret attraction to Inez, who has a burning passion for Harry (Ricardo Cortez). However, Harry is two-timing her with Liane (Kay Francis), who is married to the famous French banker Renaud (Henry Kolker). The story comes to a climax when Inez finds out that Harry and Liane plan to run away together and head to the United States. Inez, in a haze of jealousy, kills Harry. Subplots are much lighter in nature. They involve several drunken routines by two businessmen (Hugh Herbert and an uncredited Hobart Cavanaugh) and Al Wonder''s various narrations as emcee of the floor show and manager of the club.'
'drama, war','The story opens 185 years ago when two families, cotton merchants in England and America, with branches in France and Prussia swear to stand by each other in a belief that a great business firmly established in four countries will be able to withstand even such another calamity as the Napoleonic Wars from which Europe is slowly recovering. Then many years later, along comes World War I and the years that follow, to test the businesses.'
'comedy, drama','In 1893 New York, Mrs. Hannah Bell (May Robson) takes her son Donny to a charitable medical clinic, where she gives a false name and information in order to avoid paying (Hetty Green notoriously tried to do the same thing for her son Edward). However, her friend Kate Farley (Mary Forbes) visits the clinic (which she generously supports) and recognizes Donny. She makes Hannah pay for the boy''s treatment. Later, Hannah reads in the newspaper that John Burton (Lewis Stone) has been named vice president of the Knickerbocker Bank. Furious, she goes to see her longtime friend and banker Asa Cabot to withdraw all of her money immediately. He is unable to find out why she hates Burton, but refuses to accept his offered resignation. It is later revealed that Burton abandoned Hannah without explanation just before their wedding. She later married a man she did not love who she knew was only after her wealth, just to salvage her pride. Her husband squandered her money, leaving her in desperate financial straits. She painstakingly made herself rich, all for her son''s sake, and became a miser just like her father. In 1904, Donny is the valedictorian of his graduating class at Princeton University. He wants to become a writer, but Hannah insists he work at the bank where she has entrusted her now immense wealth. In 1907, Kate learns something about Hannah''s relationship to John Burton, and tries to secretly arrange a meeting between them. It does not work, but does unintentionally bring together Donny (played by William Bakewell as a man) and Burton''s daughter Elizabeth (Jean Parker). They fall in love. However, Elizabeth at first refuses to marry Donny because she feels that he cannot stand up to his domineering mother. When Hannah finds out about the relationship, she storms into Burton''s office and accuses him of trying to get her money through his daughter. He denies plotting against her, but refuses to interfere with the couple. Donny and Elizabeth get married without her approval. She does not even attend the wedding (though she watches from in hiding as the happy newlyweds leave the church). When the Panic of 1907 threatens the banking system of the United States, a committee appeals to Hannah for a desperately needed loan. She is uninterested, until they show her a list of gilt-edged stocks they are offering as security; she spots Burton''s own railroad shares and provides the money as a demand loan (on which she can demand repayment at any time). Just after Burton receives his share of the loan to satisfy his bank clients, Hannah notifies him that she wants the loan paid back. Instead of returning the money, he decides to forfeit his stock rather than abandon his depositors. Hannah is delighted to finally avenge herself on her former fiance, having wrested control of the railroad away from him. Donny, just returned from his honeymoon in Europe, gets Burton''s side of the story. Then he denounces his mother, accusing her of never loving him, but rather treating him as just another of her possessions. He informs her that Burton left her at the altar because her father tried to get him to sign an agreement never to touch her money. Burton assumed she knew and approved of the stipulation, whereas she never did until now. Stunned by the revelation, she goes outside to the park to think. She catches pneumonia, but recovers. Donny comes to see her, and they are reconciled. She also embraces her daughter-in-law. When Burton shows up (having received the railroad stocks back), that vendetta is also ended.'
'comedy','In Hollywood, press agent Robert Preston gets into trouble with his boss, Herman Cline, head of Superba Pictures, for neglecting his duties in order to publicize the 13 WAMPUS Baby Stars, June Dale in particular, at a banquet in their honor. However, he sweet talks Mrs. Cline and keeps his job. June shows up and faints, shaken by a failed abduction attempt. It turns out to be a publicity stunt concocted by Preston for his fiancée.'
'comedy','A broken and pennyless newspaperman takes part in an experiment where two crazy millionaires are offering a prize of $10,000 to anyone that can spend $1,000 a minute, every minute, for 12 hours straight.'
'drama, action','Pilot Barry Eldon (Ralph Bellamy) is the owner of Independent Transcontinental Lines whose airline is in direct competition with Martin Drewen (Robert Middlemass), owner of Consolidated Airlines. With Renee Dupont (Tala Birell), a singer at a nightclub owned by Victor Arnold (Douglas Dumbrille), he believes that his airline''s air mail routes will ensure success against his rival. Arnold decides to ally himself with Drewen who has hired German inventor Shulter (Edward Van Sloan), the inventor of a death ray projector. With this device, they bring down three of Eldon''s aircraft. Determined to set a new transcontinental record with Wiley Post flying the racer, Eldon has the help of his girlfriend to eventually expose his rivals and destroy their secret headquarters. A new contract in Washington awaits.[3]'
'comedy','Frank X. Farrell (Joe E. Brown) is an ace baseball player whose insistence upon making up excuses earns him the nickname "Alibi Ike." In the course of his first season with the Chicago Cubs, Farrell also falls in love with Dolly Stevens (Olivia De Havilland), sister-in-law of the team''s manager. Farrell''s "alibi" habit prompts Dolly to walk out on him, whereupon he goes into a slump—which coincides with attempts by gamblers to get Farrell to throw the World Series.[3]'
'drama, romance','Alice Adams (Katharine Hepburn]) is the youngest daughter of the Adams family. Her father (Fred Stone) is an invalid employed as a clerk in a factory owned by Mr. Lamb (Charles Grapewin), who has kept Adams on salary for years despite his lengthy illness. Her mother (Ann Shoemaker) is embittered by her husband''s lack of ambition and upset by the snubs her daughter endures because of their poverty. Alice''s older brother, Walter (Frank Albertson), is a gambler who cannot hold a job and who associates with African Americans (which, given the time period in which the film is set, is considered a major social embarrassment). As the film begins, Alice attends a dance given by the wealthy Mildred Palmer (Evelyn Venable). She has no date, and is escorted to the occasion by Walter. Alice is a social climber like her mother, and engages in socially inappropriate behavior and conversation in an attempt to impress others. At the dance, Alice meets wealthy Arthur Russell (Fred MacMurray), who is charmed by her despite her poverty. Alice''s mother nags her husband into quitting his job and pouring his life savings into a glue factory. Mr. Lamb ostracizes Mr. Adams from society, believing that Adams stole the glue formula from him. Alice is the subject of cruel town gossip, which Russell ignores. Alice invites Russell to the Adams home for a fancy meal. She and her mother put on airs, the entire family dresses inappropriately in formal wear despite the hot summer night, and the Adamses pretend that they eat caviar and fancy, rich-tasting food all the time. The dinner is ruined by the slovenly behavior and poor cooking skills of the maid the Adamses have hired for the occasion, Malena (Hattie McDaniel). Mr. Adams unwittingly embarrasses Alice by exposing the many lies she has told Russell. When Walter shows up with bad financial news, Alice gently expels Russell from the house now that everything is "ruined." Walter reveals that "a friend" has gambling debts, and that he stole $150 from Mr. Lamb to cover them. Mr. Adams decides to take out a loan against his new factory to save Walter from jail. Just then, Mr. Lamb appears at the Adams house. He accuses Adams of stealing the glue formula from him, and declares his intention to ruin Adams by building a glue factory directly across the street from the Adams plant. The men argue violently, but their friendship is saved when Alice confesses that her parents took the glue formula only so she could have a better life and some social status. Lamb and Adams reconcile, and Lamb indicates he will not prosecute Walter. Alice wanders out onto the porch, where Russell has been waiting for her. He confesses his love for her, despite her poverty and family problems.'
'drama','Anna Karenina (Greta Garbo) is the wife of Czarist official Karenin (Basil Rathbone). While she tries to persuade her brother Stiva (Reginald Owen) from a life of debauchery, she becomes infatuated with dashing military officer Count Vronsky (Fredric March). This indiscreet liaison ruins her marriage and position in 19th century Russian society; she is even prohibited from seeing her own son Sergei (Freddie Bartholomew), with eventual dire results.[2]'
'drama, western','In late 1800s Ohio, a young woman from the backwoods, Annie Oakley, delivers six dozen quail she has shot to the owner of the general store. He sends them to the MacIvor hotel in Cincinnati, where the mayor is holding a large banquet in honor of Toby Walker, the "greatest shot in the whole world". Toby is particular about what he eats and the hotel owner, James MacIvor, bought Annie''s quail because she shoots the quail cleanly through the head, leaving no buckshot elsewhere. At the banquet, Jeff Hogarth signs Toby to a contract making him part of Buffalo Bill''s Wild West Show. James challenges Toby to a shooting contest to take place the next morning. James arranges for "Andy" Oakley to compete against Walker, only to be shocked when she shows up. He tries unsuccessfully to call the whole thing off. The scheduled match ends in a tie, so they proceed to sudden death. The two sharpshooters continue hitting their targets. Following a comment from her mother, Annie deliberately misses her next shot. Walker is a gracious, though unsuspecting winner; Hogarth knows exactly what happened. When the Oakley''s return home, Annie promises to pay back all those who bet on her. Jeff follows and tells Annie that he never bet the money she gave to him. He also invites her to join the Wild West Show. Annie, having developed a crush on Toby, accepts. Jeff introduces her to Buffalo Bill and the other members of the show. When Toby overhears Buffalo Bill telling Jeff that he might have to fire Annie because she lacks showmanship, he teaches her some ''fancy shootin'' and tricks. At the first show, Chief Sitting Bull is in the audience with Iron Eyes Cody as his translator. Ned Buntline. Buffalo Bill''s publicist tries to sign him up for the show, but the chief is bored with the acts until he sees Annie shoot five targets thrown in the air. He is so impressed, he changes his mind and joins the show. A romance blossoms between Annie and Toby, despite Jeff''s attempts to win her affections for himself. They also become good friends with Sitting Bull. One day, a man with a grudge tries to shoot Sitting Bull. Toby grabs the man''s gun just as it goes off, saving his friend''s life. However, his eyes are affected by the closeness of the shot. While Annie''s fortunes rise, Toby''s decline. He hides his injury, but ends up shooting Annie in the hand and is dismissed from the show. Much to Annie''s heartbreak, Jeff and Wild Bill keep Toby away from her. However, during a chance meeting, a woman accompanying Toby tells Annie that she''s been nothing but bad luck to him. Although Toby tries to stop the woman, Annie feels what she says is true and unhappily retreats. After a triumphant tour of Europe, the show next plays in New York City, Toby''s home town. When he attends the show, Sitting Bull spots him and reunites the loving couple.'
'crime','Wanted by the police, murderer and gang leader Broken Nose Dawson (Brian Donlevy) goes to unscrupulous Dr. H. L. Buler (an uncredited Oscar Apfel) to have his appearance changed. Buler is assisted by nurse Mary McCall (Molly Lamont), who is aghast when she recognizes the patient. When Dawson heals, he is amazed by his new face; his underling, Muggsie Brown (Frank Mills, uncredited), remarks that he is now as handsome as a movie star. Dawson sends Muggsie to eliminate Buler and McCall, then phones in an anonymous tip about his henchman to get rid of everyone who knows about his new appearance. Muggsie kills Buler and a nurse (only it is not McCall) and is in turn gunned down by the police. Frightened when she reads about the murders in the newspaper, McCall flees across the country. Remembering Muggsie''s comment, Dawson decides to become a movie star and moves to Hollywood, where he takes elocution lessons. Under the alias "Spencer Dutro", he gets hired to portray a gangster opposite top actress Sheila Barry (Phyllis Brooks) by director Bill Branch. Barry is unimpressed by Dutro''s acting ability and inflated ego. Meanwhile, Zenith Studio press agent Joe Haynes (Wallace Ford) is warned about his publicity stunts by Police Captain Spellman (an uncredited Charles Wilson). Studio general manager Charles L. Kellar (Alan Hale) agrees that Joe''s zany antics have to stop. Molly McCall calls on Haynes, sent by her fiance, Western star Tex Williams (Addison Randall), to get a job. She recognizes Dutro from publicity photos on Haynes'' desk and tells Haynes who he is. When Dutro comes into the office, Haynes locks McCall in a closet for her safety. After getting Dutro to leave, however, Haynes decides not to call the police right away. He wants to milk the gangster''s capture for all the publicity he can; Kellar reluctantly approves his plan. Haynes arranges for everyone to work on the film that night, including an annoyed Barry (they were to fly to Yuma to get married). Things do not go quite as planned: when the police arrive, Dutro takes Barry hostage and flees. In the search of the studio grounds, Dutro also captures Haynes. When Dutro tries to leave a building and get to a car, Haynes pushes Barry outside and locks the door, with the two men inside. A chase ensues. In the end, Haynes manages to knock Dutro out, and is forgiven by Barry for his latest caper.'
'western','Clay Tallant is on his way to Silver City, Arizona to meet up with his brother, Orin. As he approaches the town, he stops a stagecoach robbery being attempted by Frank McCloskey and his gang. In intervening, Clay saves Kitty Rivers, a singer in the town''s saloon, who is engaged to Orin. In town, the marshal accuses McCloskey of the robbery, after which he is killed by McCloskey, who works for the sheriff, Jake Mannen. Clay is offered the job of marshal by Mayor Ed Comstoc, and accepts. As he attempts to clean up the town, he runs afoul of Mannen. Clay arrests "Shot-gun" Keeler and the rest of McCloskey''s gang, but they are released by the judge, who is on Mannen''s payroll. Mannen hires gunman Tex Randolph to come in and dispose of Clay, but this backfires when Randolph instead joins Clay and Orin. Mannen sets up several ambushes in which to kill Clay, but one of them leads to Clay killing McCloskey. However, eventually Mannen traps Clay, Orin, Tex, and Pompey (their servant) in a burning building. When Pompey makes a break for it to get help, he is gunned down. The three lawmen escape the flames and shoot it out against Mannen''s henchmen. When the smoke clears (literally), nearly everyone including Orin and Tex lie dead, with Clay the only one left standing. Then Mannen appears and is just about to shoot Clay when Sarah, Kitty''s servant and Pompey''s would-be love interest, shoots and kills Mannen. Having cleaned up the town, Clay leaves Silver City, taking Kitty and Sarah with him. Kitty had changed her romantic interest from Orin to his Clay.'
'comedy','Millicent (Una Merkel) wants her husband Willie (Charles Butterworth) to make a success of himself, the way her old beau Ronald (Harvey Stephens) did. In the belief what she wants most is money, Willie cashes in a life-insurance policy in exchange for $2,000 in cash, which he promptly loses. When he sees real-estate agent Skinner (Donald Meek) with that much money, not long after having spoken with him, Willie knows who''s robbed him. Meanwhile, a professional thief, Rocky Banister (Nat Pendleton), is terrifying everyone in town with his daring robberies, worrying Millicent so much that she keeps a gun nearby. Borrowing the gun, Willie confronts Skinner and takes the $2,000. When he returns home, Willie discovers that his money has been in his wallet all along. Before he can return it to Skinner and apologize, Rocky breaks in and steals all $4,000. Willie is accused of being an accomplice of Rocky''s and sent to jail. During a breakout, Willie manages to leave a note behind for the police, who catch up just in time to apprehend Rocky and proclaim Willie a hero.'
'western','Hoppy gets a letter from the father of Johnny''s girlfriend asking for help against rustlers. He also asks Hoppy to bring Red, but not Johnny because Margaret is now enamoured with an Easterner. Johnny doesn''t believe it and, without Hoppy''s knowledge, he races off to marry Margaret. Hoppy and Red follow 3 hours behind to help the rancher against the rustler known as "Nevada".'
'drama, adventure','On a foggy night in 1850, Mary Rutledge (Miriam Hopkins), accompanied by retired Colonel Marcus Aurelius Cobb (Frank Craven), arrives in San Francisco Bay aboard the Flying Cloud. A gold digger, she has come to wed the wealthy owner of a gold mine who lost his mine when the roulette wheel landed on red 13 times at the Bella Donna . The men at the wharf reluctantly inform her that her fiancé is dead, murdered most likely by Louis Chamalis (Edward G. Robinson), the powerful owner of the Bella Donna restaurant and gambling house. Mary is upset, but quickly pulls herself together and asks the way to the Bella Donna. Mary meets Chamalis and agrees to be his companion, not only for economic reasons (as an attraction, she helps draw in customers), but for personal pleasure as well. Chamalis gives her the name ''Swan'' and she becomes his female escort. She accompanies him on promenades in town and he showers her with extravagant gifts. Their relationship sours quickly, however, as Swan is angered by Chamalis''s destructive power-mongering. She does not, however, mind running a crooked roulette wheel and cheating the miners out of their gold. Colonel Cobb purchases a printing press, with the intention of starting a respectable newspaper for the people of San Francisco. His first issue includes an article criticizing an unpunished murder by Chamalis and his entourage. When Chamalis finds out, he threatens to destroy Cobb''s printing press and burn down the building, but is halted by Swan. Chamalis demands that Cobb never print anything attacking him. The colonel unwillingly complies. Swan becomes disillusioned with her life in San Francisco. Her distant behavior irks Chamalis. One morning she sets out on horseback. When it begins to rain heavily, she seeks refuge in a seemingly abandoned cabin, where she meets poet and gold miner Jim Carmichael (McCrea). Swan is taken with him, but lies about her current situation after hearing his criticisms of the city. He gives her his book of poems as a memento. Carmichael decides to return to New York. Because of fog the ship will not leave for a few days. He meets Chamalis'' helper, Old Atrocity (Walter Brennan), who, seeing his bags of gold is happy to show him to the Bella Donna. Carmichael is surprised to find Mary working there. He is served drugged liquor and plays roulette at her table. He loses his composure, insults ''Swan'' and eventually loses his money. Carmichael wakes up the following morning in the Bella Donna''s kitchen. His eloquent speech impresses Chamalis, who hires him on the spot as a waiter. Carmichael''s presence perturbs Mary, who offers him money to depart. Carmichael refuses, wishing to earn the fare on his own. Cobb puts up a poster telling about a murder Chamalis'' ordered and how the Bella Donna cheats customers. Seeing it, Chamlis'' henchman "Knuckles" Jacoby (Brian Donlevy) shoots both the man who put it up and the publisher when he tries to defend him. Dying, Cobb orders his assistant to print the truth. A vigilante group is formed and hangs Knuckles. Devastated by Cobb''s death, Mary acknowledges her love for Carmichael, and works the roulette table so that he wins back the gold he previously lost. Chamalis finds out and sets out to kill Carmichael, who has snuck into Mary''s bedroom. The lovers decide to leave together. They find a rowboat and attempt to board the ship in the harbor. They have trouble seeing in the fog, but can hear Chamalis pursuing them. He shoots and injures Carmichael, and corners them beneath a pier. Mary begs him, as proof of his love for her, not to kill Carmichael. Chamalis agrees, but tells her he does not want her anymore. The sheriff arrives with a mob, and Chamalis allows himself to be taken away. Mary returns to Carmichael''s side aboard the ship as it prepares to set sail.'
'drama','Becky Sharp (Miriam Hopkins), a socially ambitious English young lady, manages to survive during the years following Napoleon''s defeat at Waterloo. In her efforts to advance herself, she manages to link up with a number of gentlemen: the Marquis of Steyne (Cedric Hardwicke), Joseph Sedley (Nigel Bruce), Rawdon Crawley (Alan Mowbray), and George Osborne (G. P. Huntley Jr). She rises to the top of British society and becomes the scourge of the social circle, offending the other ladies such as Lady Bareacres (Billie Burke). Sharp falls into the humiliation of singing for her meals in a beer hall. But she never stays down for long.'
'comedy, musical','Radio station W.H.Y. owner Spud Miller (Jack Oakie), also functions as the station''s only announcer while his comic partner Smiley Goodwin (Henry Wadsworth) serves as the house singer, Lochinvar, The Great Lover, "the idol of millions of women." Both Spud and Smiley play the role of Lochinvar. Facing the prospect of bankruptcy, Spud welcomes the suggestions of George Burns and Gracie Allen, who attempt to sell an invention, The Radio Eye, invented by Gracie Allen''s uncle, a television device which can pick up and transmit any signal, any time, anywhere. Burns and Allen ask Miller for an advance of $5,000 for the invention. Spud decides to enter an international broadcast competition with a prize of $250,000. Ysobel listens to the Lochinvar radio show and believes that he has sent her a letter. She finds out that he sends letters to listeners of the show. Outraged, she goes to the radio station to shoot Lochinvar. Spud and Smiley are able to win her over after her gun fails to shoot. They attempt to convince her to invest $5,000 in The Radio Eye invention which would allow them to win the competition. She takes Spud and Smiley to her Caribbean island, Clementi. She will decide to marry one of them before midnight. Gordoni (C. Henry Gordon), however, plans to murder them. Spud and Smiley are able to notify George Burns and Gracie Allen in New York and inform them that they are in grave danger. Burns and Allen then depart for the island on a boat. Gracie sets a fire on the boat. A Coast Guard cutter takes them on board and heads for the island. Gordoni has Drowzo put in the drinks to put Ysobel to sleep. Spud and Smiley turn on The Radio Eye to listen to the Vienna Boys Choir and the Ray Noble Orchestra from New York to distract Gordoni and his men. Spud and Smiley are able to escape on coaches with teams of horses. After a chase, during which Spud is separated from his horses in a bifurcation in the road, they reach the pier where the Coast Guard and Burns and Allen meet them. Gordoni jumps into the sea. Spud wins the international broadcast competition. Spud tells Ysobel that he may marry her after a period of observation. She tells him: "Let this be the start of a beautiful friendship."'
'comedy, romance','Cynical and hard-bitten publisher Richard Kurt (Robert Montgomery) persuades free-spirited, Bohemian artist Marion Forsythe (Ann Harding) to write her memoirs, which he hopes will be salacious. Her old (and nearly forgotten) flame Leander Nolan (Edward Everett Horton)- she calls him ''Bunny''- is now running for the Senate and fears embarrassment and political ruin. Spurred by his wealthy backer and prospective father-in-law, Nolan tries to halt the book, clashing from the start with Kurt. To get Marion away from the distraction, Kurt takes her to a secluded cabin in Maine, where a mutual romance develops between the two, despite their great differences in temperament, tolerance, and ambition. The arrival of Nolan, his fiancée (Una Merkel), and her father brings matters to a head.'
'drama','Set in Pennsylvania coal country, the film tells the story of Joe Radek (Paul Muni), a miner of Slavic background. Upset after an argument with his girlfriend Anna Novak (Karen Morley), he drinks and attends a union meeting, where he acts as a catalyst to splitting the union members into radical and moderate factions; radically inclined miners decide to walk out and strike, the others led by Radek''s best friend Mike Shemanski (John Qualen) stay at work. Meanwhile, the company brings in a private police force cobbled out of thugs by a Pinkerton-type detective agency. One night, when three drunk company cops are trying to violate Shemanski''s daughter, both friends reunite in defending her honor. During the fight, Shemanski is killed by McGee (Barton MacLane), and Radek is injured and hospitalized. While he is recovering, the strike ends with no results and Shemanski''s murder stays unpunished. Angry Radek collects dynamite and provision and decides to start his own underground protest by hiding in the mine during the daytime and blowing up company property at night. His exploits draw the national attention after being reported by the media. Corrupted company cops are trying to catch with Radek in the mine; he fights back with dynamite sticks and accidentally seals himself and Shemanski''s murderer McGee in a mine tunnel. After an epic fight Radek emerges from the mine with subdued company policeman to deliver him to justice, and as a winner in the court of public opinion he is able to influence more favorable union contract for his mining buddies, making amends with his girlfriend as well.[1][3]'
'crime, horror','In a Tyrolean castle in the late 18th century, twin sons, Gregor and Anton, are born to the de Berghmann baronial family. The baron is concerned: an old prophecy in the family states that the younger brother shall kill the elder in the Black Room of the castle. Some years later in 1834,[2] it is revealed that the Baron Gregor (Boris Karloff) has become a depraved ruler who murders the wives of local peasants. His brother, Anton (also played by Karloff), who cannot use his right arm and has spent much of his life traveling Europe, returns to the castle for a visit, but refuses to believe the rumors he hears about Gregor. The kindly Anton becomes popular with the villagers and the castle staff, being the exact opposite of his brother. At the same time, Gregor''s attempts to woo Thea (Marian Marsh), daughter of family advisor Colonel Hassell, fail noticeably before both her admiration for Anton and her true love for young Lieutenant Albert Lussan (Robert Allen). When the castle servant Mashka (Katherine DeMille) disappears after being seen with Gregor, the locals form a mob and enter the castle, confronting the baron. Gregor agrees to abdicate, and give power to his brother, who has become popular. After the papers are signed to relinquish his baronetcy to Anton, he lures his unsuspecting brother to the Black Room, kills him, and throws him into the pit where the dead bodies of Mashka and his other victims are kept. Gregor now assumes Anton''s identity, and prepares to wed Thea, whose father supports their union. Lt. Lussan angrily and threateningly objects to the Colonel; Gregor kills the Colonel and easily frames the Lieutenant, who is found guilty and sentenced to death. Only Anton''s mastiff recognizes that the baron is not his master, and the dog pursues Gregor when he travels to town for his wedding. Meanwhile, Lussan escapes his cell and meets secretly with Thea, who urges him to flee. He refuses, however, and the wedding ceremony begins in the town cathedral. As the stately ceremony draws to a close, the priest asks for any who object to the union to "speak now or forever hold their peace", and the dog attacks "Anton", who defends himself with his supposedly paralyzed right arm. Standing thus revealed, Gregor flees. The townspeople gathered for the wedding form a mob in a matter of seconds. The dog, followed by the mob, which includes Lussan, pursues Gregor to the castle, where he attempts to hide in the Black Room. The mob discovers where he is and begins to batter open the secret door. Before they can gain passage, however, the dog squeezes through and throws himself on Gregor, who falls backward into the pit and onto the knife still held in his murdered brother''s crippled hand. Thus, the prophecy is fulfilled.'
'drama','Aboard a luxury liner, gambler John Francis Dugan makes the acquaintance of socialite Jeanette Foster, who has a reputation for using men to get her way. Jeanette cajoles him into sneaking her into First Class, where they see young Fred Curtis lose $12,000 at poker to a couple of oilmen, Belcher and Schmelling. Fred''s troubles grow worse when the haughty Millicent Bath has his markers and threatens to tell the police unless he helps her at Customs, sneaking some valuable pearls into the country that she ha stolen. Fred is so forlorn that he considers jumping overboard, until Jeanette stops him. Dugan decides to help. He wins back Fred''s debts at cards. When they return to Fred''s stateroom, Dugan spots a photo of Fred''s deceased mother and is shocked to discover that she was his ex-wife. Fred is his long-lost son. Mrs. Bath has hidden the pearls inside a cane''s handle. Dugan distracts her, replaces the pearls with pills, then hides the valuables inside the pocket of Belcher, the oilman. They spill out at Customs and are claimed by Mrs. Bath to belong to her, causing her to be taken away by the authorities. Dugan has become fond of Jeannette, who promises to change her old ways.'
'comedy','After escaping from jail where they had "one more week to serve," Laurel and Hardy travel to Scotland as stowaways on a cattle boat, where Laurel (as "Stanley McLaurel") believes he is heir to his grandfather''s fortune. As it turns out, Laurel has only been bequeathed a set of bagpipes and a snuff container.Use of the latter causes Hardy, trying to demonstrate to Laurel the proper way to use snuff, to fly off an old bridge. His clothes are soaked. In the boarding house, Laurel swaps their overcoats for a large fish for dinner. In quick succession the fish "shrizzles" to about 1/10 its size, Hardy''s pants are burnt and ruined, and an attempt to hide the still-hot stove results in the landlady throwing the two out and confiscating their luggage for non-payment of rent. Receiving an ad for a tailor''s offer of a new suit, Laurel and Hardy accidentally go to the wrong floor and join a Scottish regiment of the British army and travel to India, where they frequently run afoul of their Sergeant Major (Jimmy Finlayson), and help their friend Alan (William Janney) reunite with his love (and Laurel''s cousin) Lorna McLaurel (June Lang).'
'drama, crime','After graduating from Pacific Night Law School in Los Angeles, feisty and ambitious Mexican American Johnny Ramirez loses his first court case because he is ill-prepared. His poor, Hispanic client''s truck was destroyed by careless debutante Dale Elwell. Johnny is harassed by the opposing attorney, uppercrust Brook Manville, who is defending his lover, Elwell. Johnny reacts, losing his temper and the case. Disbarred for his actions, he journeys to a small town south of the border and finds work as a bouncer, in a seedy casino owned by Charlie Roark. Johnny helps transform the dive into a first-class nightclub called the Silver Slipper that attracts an upscale crowd, and Charlie makes him a partner to reward him for his efforts. Charlie''s lonely, unhappily married wife Marie makes a play for Johnny, who resists her advances. Certain Johnny has shunned her simply because she is married, she locks her inebriated husband in the garage and leaves the car running, asphyxiating him. Dale Elwell and her society friends, including Brook Manville, visit the club and Johnny becomes infatuated with her. A jealous Marie accuses Johnny of murdering Charlie, but when called to testify at his trial, she collapses on the witness stand, having become insane. Johnny returns to Los Angeles and proposes to Dale, who contemptuously rejects him, citing the dramatic differences in their racial and economic backgrounds, then is hit and killed by a car trying to get away from him. Johnny decides to sell the Silver Slipper, donate the proceeds to a law school, and settle in Los Angeles among his own people.'
'drama','Four brothers feel cursed by their family''s gambling bug. All four try to overcome the addiction: only one, the youngest, is successful.'
'drama','Franz Roberti (Charles Boyer) is a passionate and eminent musical conductor; Constance Dane (Katharine Hepburn) is an aspiring but unknown composer. She wants to see his concert, but it is all sold out. When she sneaks into his rehearsal he is smitten by her devotion and gets his orchestra to get it right as they play just for her. Constance marries Franz: he says she is "a most exciting creature" and she has been in love with him for a long time (i.e., "since late this afternoon"). Not long after they get married Constance finds Franz having dinner with a female friend. So Constance responds by going out with her own friend, Johnny Lawrence (John Beal). Johnny wants to marry Constance, but she cannot forget her husband. Franz has been hitting the bottle and pretty much throwing away his career, although exactly which of his many sins is driving him to drink is not really clear. Fortunately, Constance has been working on her concerto.'
'comedy','After the bankruptcy of her father''s business, the penniless socialite Jeannette Desmereau (Colbert) works with magazine editor Cyrus Anderson (MacMurray) and publisher Jack Bristow (Young). They discuss love and wedding plans. However, when Bristow would seem to marry her, Anderson prepares a plan to take her back. This is a romantic comedy with money, bad tempers and love in the balance.'
'sci-fi, horror','On a stormy night, Percy Bysshe Shelley (Douglas Walton) and Lord Byron (Gavin Gordon) praise Mary Shelley (Elsa Lanchester) for her story of Frankenstein and his Monster. Reminding them that her intention was to impart a moral lesson, Mary says she has more of the story to tell. The scene shifts to the end of the 1931 Frankenstein. Villagers gathered around the burning windmill cheer the apparent death of the Monster (Boris Karloff). Their joy is tempered by the realization that Henry Frankenstein (Colin Clive) is also apparently dead. Hans (Reginald Barlow), father of the girl the creature drowned in the previous film, wants to see the Monster''s bones. He falls into a flooded pit underneath the mill, where the Monster – having survived the fire – strangles him. Hauling himself from the pit, the Monster casts Hans'' wife (Mary Gordon) to her death. He next encounters Minnie (Una O''Connor), who flees in terror. Henry''s body is returned to his fiancée Elizabeth (Valerie Hobson) at his ancestral castle home. Minnie arrives to sound the alarm about the Monster, but her warning goes unheeded. Elizabeth, seeing Henry move, realizes he is still alive. Nursed back to health by Elizabeth, Henry has renounced his creation, but still believes he may be destined to unlock the secret of life and immortality. A hysterical Elizabeth cries that she sees death coming, foreshadowing the arrival of Henry''s former mentor, Doctor Septimus Pretorius (Ernest Thesiger). In his rooms, Pretorius shows Henry several homunculi he has created, including a miniature queen, king, archbishop, devil, ballerina, and mermaid. Pretorius wishes to work with Henry to create a mate for the Monster and offers a toast to their venture: "To a new world of gods and monsters!" Upon forcing Henry to help him, Pretorius will grow an artificial brain while Henry gathers the parts for the mate. The Monster saves a young shepherdess (Anne Darling) from drowning. Her screams upon seeing him alert two hunters, who shoot and injure the creature. The hunters raise a mob that sets out in pursuit. Captured and trussed to a pole, the Monster is hauled to a dungeon and chained. Left alone, he breaks his chains, kills the guards and escapes into the woods. That night, the Monster encounters a gypsy family and burns his hand in their campfire. Following the sound of a violin playing "Ave Maria", the Monster encounters an old blind hermit (O. P. Heggie) who thanks God for sending him a friend. He teaches the monster words like "friend" and "good" and shares a meal with him. Two lost hunters stumble upon the cottage and recognize the Monster. He attacks them and accidentally burns down the cottage as the hunters lead the hermit away. Taking refuge from another angry mob in a crypt, the Monster spies Pretorius and his cronies Karl (Dwight Frye) and Ludwig (Ted Billings) breaking open a grave. The henchmen depart as Pretorius stays to enjoy a light supper. The Monster approaches Pretorius, and learns that Pretorius plans to create a mate for him. Henry and Elizabeth, now married, are visited by Pretorius. He is ready for Henry to do his part in their "supreme collaboration". Henry refuses and Pretorius calls in the Monster who demands Henry''s help. Henry again refuses and Pretorius orders the Monster out, secretly signaling him to kidnap Elizabeth. Pretorius guarantees her safe return upon Henry''s participation. Henry returns to his tower laboratory where in spite of himself he grows excited over his work. After being assured of Elizabeth''s safety, Henry completes the Bride''s body. A storm rages as final preparations are made to bring the Bride to life. Her bandage-wrapped body is raised through the roof. Lightning strikes a kite, sending electricity through the Bride. Henry and Pretorius lower her and realize their success. "She''s alive! Alive!" Henry cries. They remove her bandages and help her to stand. "The bride of Frankenstein!" Doctor Pretorius declares. The Monster comes down the steps after killing Karl on the rooftop and sees his mate (Elsa Lanchester). The excited Monster reaches out to her, asking, "Friend?" The Bride, screaming, rejects him. "She hate me! Like others" the Monster dejectedly says. As Elizabeth races to Henry''s side, the Monster rampages through the laboratory. The Monster tells Henry and Elizabeth "Yes! Go! You live!" To Pretorius and the Bride, he says "You stay. We belong dead." While Henry and Elizabeth flee, the Monster sheds a tear and pulls a lever to trigger the destruction of the laboratory and tower.'
'comedy','Joe''s (Joe E. Brown) happy marriage is threatened when an heiress falls in love with him.'
'musical','A taxi driver (Dick Powell) secretly works to achieve his dream of becoming a radio singer. One day he gives a radio station secretary a lift. She prattles on about a sponsor''s new contest. The sponsor, a prominent cheese company, is looking for a singing gondolier to participate in their newest campaign.[1]'
'musical','It is about a small town girl on her rise to stardom. But it is having problems with love. Tommy falls in love with Winnie, but he feels she is in love with her manager Lucky. Lucky claims he does not want to get married, but is in fact in love with the rich socialite Iris. While Iris''s brother loses money with his gambling problem.[5]'
'comedy, musical','Irene Foster (Eleanor Powell) tries to convince her high school sweetheart, Broadway producer Robert Gordon (Robert Taylor), to give her a chance to star in his new musical, but he is too busy with the rich widow (June Knight) backing his show. Irene tries to show Gordon that she has the talent to succeed, but he will not hire her. Things become complicated when she begins impersonating a French dancer, who was actually the invention of a gossip columnist (Jack Benny).'
'drama, adventure','A prospector heading for the Alaska gold fields loses most of his money gambling. His luck changes when he pays $250 for a sled dog to keep him from being shot by an arrogant Englishman, who is also headed for the Yukon. The prospector and his friend head off for the Yukon with a map showing the location of a major gold mine. Along the way, they rescue a woman whose missing husband owned the original map. After the dog wins them a thousand dollars used to purchase supplies, the three continue north in search of the gold mine.'
'adventure, action','In 17th-century England, Irish doctor Peter Blood (Errol Flynn) is summoned to aid Lord Gildoy, a wounded patron who participated in the Monmouth Rebellion. Arrested while performing his duties as a physician, he is convicted of treason against King James II and sentenced to death by the infamous Judge Jeffreys. By the whim of the king, who sees an opportunity for profit, Blood and the surviving rebels are transported to the West Indies to be sold into slavery. In Port Royal, Blood is purchased by Arabella Bishop (Olivia de Havilland), the beautiful niece of local military commander Colonel Bishop (Lionel Atwill). Attracted by Blood''s rebellious nature, Arabella does her best to improve his situation by recommending him as the personal physician of the colony''s governor, who suffers from painful gout. Outwardly resentful towards Arabella, yet silently appreciative for her efforts on his behalf, Blood develops an escape plan for himself and his fellow slaves. The plan is almost uncovered by the suspicious Colonel Bishop, who has one of Blood''s men flogged and interrogated. Blood is spared a similar fate when a Spanish man-o-war attacks Port Royal. During the raid, Blood and his fellow slaves seize the Spanish ship from its drunken night watch, and sail away to begin lives of piracy. Blood and his men quickly achieve great fame among the brotherhood of buccaneers. When the old governor is unable to contain the pirate menace, Colonel Bishop is appointed governor. He sends Arabella to England on an extended holiday, but three years later she returns to the Caribbean. Her ship, also carrying royal emissary Lord Willoughby (Henry Stephenson), is captured by Blood''s treacherous partner, the French buccaneer Captain Levasseur (Basil Rathbone), who plans to hold them for ransom, but Blood forces Levasseur to sell them to him, relishing the opportunity to turn the tables on Arabella. When Levasseur vehemently objects, Blood is forced to kill him in a duel. Blood offers Arabella valuable jewelry from his conquests as a sign of his love for her. Ungrateful for her "rescue", Arabella is indignant at having been purchased by Blood, and calls him thief and pirate. Although angered by her rejection, he orders his men to set sail for Port Royal where he will deliver Arabella and Lord Willoughby, despite the danger to himself and his crew. As they approach Port Royal, they sight two French warships attacking the city; Bishop has left it undefended in his single-minded pursuit of Blood. With England now at war with France, Lord Willoughby pleads with Blood to save the colony, but the captain and his crew refuse to fight for the corrupt king. Willoughby reveals that James II has been deposed in the Glorious Revolution; England''s new king, William III, has sent Willoughby to offer Blood and his men full pardons and commissions in the Royal Navy. This startling news quickly changes the pirates'' minds, and they prepare for battle with the French. After ferrying Arabella ashore, Blood and his men approach Port Royal flying French colors, but soon that ensign is replaced with the British Union Jack. A pitched ship-to-ship battle ensues, leading to frenzied hand-to-hand deck combat. Blood and his men defeat the French frigates, saving the colony, but not before losing their ship in the battle. As a reward, Blood is appointed the new governor of Port Royal by Lord Willoughby and has the pleasure of dealing with his hostile predecessor, now returned from his pirate hunt and under arrest for dereliction of duty in a time of war. As Arabella playfully pleads with the new governor to spare her uncle''s life, Peter Blood reveals his face to the astonished Colonel. With a sly smile of triumph, he greets Bishop with, "Good morning, Uncle", having won the hand and heart of Arabella.'
'drama, crime','Rhoda Montaine learns that her first husband, Gregory Moxley, is still alive, which makes things awkward for her, since she has remarried Carl, the son of wealthy C. Phillip Montaine. She turns to Perry Mason for help, but when he goes to see Moxley, he finds only his corpse. Rhoda is arrested for murder.'
'drama, crime','Margie Clune wins the "Lucky Legs" beauty contest concocted by Frank Patton, but has trouble collecting her $1,000 prize when the promoter skips town. It turns out it is all a scam he has pulled before. When he later turns up stabbed to death, she is a strong suspect.'
'comedy, mystery','Gentleman detective Philo Vance (Paul Lukas) begins an investigation when he receives an anonymous letter stating that society man Lynn Llewellyn (Donald Cook) will be in danger when he appears at the casino owned by his uncle, Kinkaid (Arthur Byron). Vance visits the Llewellyn estate, which is run by Mrs. Priscilla Kinkaid-Llewellyn (Alison Skipworth), the matriarch of the household, and stumbles into one of the family''s many quarrels. At the end of the bitter quarrel, which involves Mrs. Llewellyn''s son Lynn and his wife Virginia (Louise Henry), Virginia announces that she has decided to leave the house and go to Chicago. During the tiff, Vance and Doris (Rosalind Russell), Mrs. Llewellyn''s secretary, are introduced to each other and Doris immediately takes a liking to Vance. Vance takes Doris to his home, where he and District Attorney Markham (Purnell Pratt) show her the mysterious letter. Doris immediately recognizes the return address as being that of the Llewellyn''s townhouse in Closter and notices that the letter was typed on her typewriter. Vance assigns Sergeant Heath (Ted Healy) to help stake out the casino that night, but their presence does not prevent Lynn from suddenly collapsing at the card table. At the same time, Doris informs Vance that Virginia has died at the Llewellyn house. Markham begins his investigation of the murder by questioning Mrs. Llewellyn, who recalls having quarrelled with Virginia before she was poisoned, and Amelia (Isabel Jewell), Mrs. Llewellyn''s daughter, who admits that she too had a spat with Virginia. Meanwhile, Doris finds Mrs. Llewellyn''s recently altered will, in which she disinherited Kinkaid, making it apparent that Lynn and Amelia would be the only ones who would benefit from Mrs. Llewellyn''s death. Other clues begin to surface, including Kinkaid''s unusual collection of books on chemistry and poisons, and a loaded gun found in Virginia''s bedroom. Soon after Lynn''s recovery, Mrs. Llewellyn is found dead of an apparent suicide with a note, bearing her signature, in which she confesses to Virginia''s murder. Not convinced that the mystery has been solved, Vance pursues his theory that Mrs. Llewellyn may have been poisoned by heavy water, which leads him to Kinkaid''s secret laboratory, where he and Doris are captured and held at gunpoint by Kinkaid. Vance and Doris escape, but Vance does not believe that Kinkaid is the murderer, thinking instead that he is merely one of many decoys set up by the real killer to lead the investigation astray. The real killer turns out to be Lynn, who has lured Vance and Doris to the Closter townhouse to kill them. But before Lynn completes his "perfect crime," Vance reads from a letter he wrote earlier in which he detailed his theory about the killings. In it, Vance names Lynn as the murderer, calling him a rich, ego-maniacal weakling, who, being tired of his wife, poisoned her and threw the blame on his uncle, whom he despised. After hearing Vance''s summary of the murder plot, Lynn tells his captors that he has arranged to pin Vance and Doris'' forthcoming murder on Kinkaid. However, when Lynn shoots Vance, Heath and others emerge from behind a door where they have been recording Lynn''s confession and arrest him. After thanking Becky, Mrs. Llewellyn''s maid (Louise Fazenda), for loading Lynn''s gun with blanks, Vance resumes his romance with Doris.'
'mystery, comedy','Charlie Chan is brought in when an archaeologist disappears while excavating ancient art treasures in Egypt. Charlie must sort out the stories of the archaeological team, deal with the crazed son of the missing scientist, learn why priceless treasures are falling into the hands of private collectors, and battle many seemingly supernatural events.'
'mystery, comedy','Chan is on his way back from completing the London case—they always mentioned the previous case—to go on "vacation" to Paris, but this is just a way to make people think that he is innocently there. He is on a case for some London bankers and customers who say that some bonds from the Lamartine Bank in Paris are forged, so they hired Chan to solve the case. The suspects Chan meets include; Max Corday, a local artist who wants to reap the financial rewards of fame; Albert Dufresne, the assistant to the bank president who is living beyond his means; Henri Latouche, a bank officer who has access to financial bank records; Yvette Lamartine, the daughter of the bank president who is determined to recover old love letters from the bank vault; and Marcel Xavier, a crippled and blind beggar and "crazed World War I veteran who thinks that the bank is cheating on him and wants his money. After various murder attempts on Chan and other killings, including that of his assistant, Nardi, and the ex-boyfriend of Yvette. Chan realizes that the murders were staged by Xavier. But it turns out not to be the case. The murderer was Xavier, but he is actually not real; he has alternately been played by both Corday and Latouche; with Latouche appearing as Xavier when Corday was with Charlie, and Corday appearing as Xavier when Charlie meets Latouche at the Bank. Chan takes young Victor Descartes with him to find Xavier, and while they search Corday''s and LaTouche''s lair where they have been printing the counterfeit bonds, Latouche (as Xavier) arrives. Chan and Descartes kill the lights, and Latouche shoots at Chan''s flashlight, apparently hitting him. But Chan has mounted it on a broomstick to decoy Latouche, and Descartes is able to capture Xavier/Latouche. Then the police arrive (summoned by Chan''s son Lee), giving Chan a chance to explain how Corday and LaTouche created alibis for each other by alternately playing Xavier.'
'mystery, comedy','Charlie Chan arrives in Shanghai at the behest of the U.S. government to help stop an opium smuggling ring. He receives a warning aboard ship not to stop in Shanghai. He is met by his Number One Son, Lee Chan, as well as Philip Nash and his fianceé, Diana Woodland. Charlie is the guest of honor at a banquet held that evening, hosted by Sir Stanley Woodland (David Torrence in an uncredited role). When Sir Stanley opens a box to give a handwritten scroll to Charlie, he is shot and killed by a gun inside the booby-trapped box. Charlie meets with Colonel Watkins, the commissioner of police, and agrees to investigate the crime. The next day, American FBI man James Andrews arrives in Shanghai, accompanied by his valet, Forrest (Gladden James in an uncredited role). That night, an assassin shoots what seems to be a sleeping Charlie Chan in bed. But Charlie, suspecting another attempt on his life, rigged a dummy and escaped death. Watkins, Nash, and Woodland try to meet with Andrews. Nash sneaks off and goes through Andrews'' briefcase, suitcase, and other papers. Charlie arrives, and while he is speaking with Andrews is nearly shot. Charlie and Andrews managed to retrieve the gun, but the assassin escaped. A fingerprint on the gun reveals that Nash is the likely suspect, and he is arrested. A letter Nash had stolen from Andrews'' things seem innocuous, but Charlie takes it as evidence. Charlie returns to his hotel and meets with Lee. They receive a note from Col. Watkins asking them to come to an office downtown. They check with police headquarters, which assures them the note is genuine. Charlie goes, but Lee realizes the note is fake when Col. Watkins calls soon thereafter. Charlie is kidnapped and taken into a room to meet with a mysterious Russian (Ivan Marloff). Lee tries to save his father, but is caught. The two bluff their way out of danger, and after a brief fight manage to escape. That evening, Charlie and Andrews meet with Col. Watkins. Diana Woodland arrives and asks to see Nash; her request is granted. But Diana sneaks Nash a pistol, and the two escape. Later that day, Andrews and Charlie return to the house where Charlie was held. The gang has left, but Charlie finds an ink pad in the fireplace and takes it as evidence. Lee shows up dressed as a beggar, and Charlie sends him home. Oddly, Charlie arrives at the hotel first. Lee shows up later, and reveals that he saw their kidnapper in a taxi on the street and followed him to the Cafe Versailles. Moments later, Andrews calls and summons Charlie to his apartment. Before he leaves, Charlie sends Lee off on a secret mission. Charlie arrives at Andrews'' apartment, where the FBI agent has caught a gangster involved with the Marloff gang. After a punch to the jaw, the gangster reveals that the Cafe Versailles is where the opium gang is hiding out. Andrews calls the police, and asks them to meet them at the club. Charlie and Andrews leave for Cafe Versailles. After Charlie and Andrews depart, Andrews'' valet, Forrest, frees the gangster and the two leave. At the club, Nash (disguised as an able seaman) sees some of the Marloff gang heading toward the basement and follows, but is captured. Charlie and Andrews arrive moments later, and follow a gang member into the basement as well. The basement is where opium is being shipped out via riverboat, reached by a trap door. Andrews urges Charlie to go first, but Charlie hesitates when his flashlight mysteriously refuses to work. The police arrive by boat, and after a brief shootout capture the gang. Charlie surprises everyone by arresting James Andrews. Lee Chan reveals that his father sent him off to cable America, and he has just received a reply which indicates that the real Agent Andrews was murdered in San Francisco three weeks earlier. The false "James Andrews" is really the leader of the Marloff gang, and intended to have the gang murder Charlie in a shoot-out when they descended through the trap door. Charlie knew Andrews did not really call the police, and had Lee summon them instead. Nash''s escape from police custody was planned by Charlie. Charlie reveals that Forrest used the ink pad to put Nash''s thumbprint on the revolver to frame him. Nash is declared innocent, and Andrews and Forrest go to jail.'
'drama','Sylvestre Bonnard is an aging book collector. While going through his mementos one afternoon he comes across a brief note written by a former lover. Studying it, he realizes that it is written on a page torn from a rare book that he has been seeking for decades. Excited, he decides to return to his home town, where he and the lover had their romance, to search for the book. When Bonnard arrives, he meets an attorney, Mouche, through which he discovers that his old flame had a daughter, who now lives in a girl''s boarding school. Mouche is the girl''s guardian. Failing to find the book in his search, Bonnard travels to the school to speak with the daughter, Jeanne. On his arrival, he is dismayed to find that both Mouche and the school''s headmistress, Mlle. Prefere, treat the young 15-year old cruelly. He is also entranced by the young lady, so much so that the focus of his trip now turns from a search for the book to an attempt to rescue the girl. Sensing a way to escape the confines of the school, and unbeknownst to Bonnard, Jeanne convinces Mlle. Prefere that he is romantically interested in her. When Bonnard returns to his home in Paris, Jeanne tells Prefere that Bonnard would be thrilled if they paid him a visit there. When they arrive, Bonnard is thrilled, which Prefere misinterprets as a show of romantic interest. As time goes on and they remain in Paris, Prefere becomes more and more convinced that Bonnard is indeed in love with her. When she broaches the subject of marriage to the aging bibliophile he is aghast at the suggestion. In the ensuing confusion, Jeanne confesses her subterfuge, which causes Prefere to understandably react angrily. Embarrassed, Prefere ushers Jeanne back to the school, barring Bonnard from attempting to visit the young girl, to whom he becomes strongly attached. Without permission, Bonnard travels to the school and, with Jeanne''s wholehearted cooperation, whisks her away, with the intent of adopting her. Upon discovery of the girl''s disappearance, Mouche realizes where she must have gone and goes to Paris to confront Bonnard. When he does, he offers to sell Jeanne''s adoption to Bonnard, and for not pressing kidnapping charges, for a large sum of money. Wishing to get the girl out of her unfortunate circumstances, Bonnard agrees to the sale, but the only way he can raise the money is by selling his book collection. Distraught at the prospect of giving up his beloved books, but seeing no other way, sets up a time to complete the sale. However, Coccoz, a traveling bookseller with whom Bonnard is acquainted, shows up at the last minute and it is discovered that Mouche had stolen the rare book which had begun Bonnard''s search in the first place. Not only has he stolen the book, but it is also found out that he had forged the original papers giving him custody of Jeanne. With the tables turned, Mouche agrees to Bonnard''s adoption of Jeanne, and forgoes any payment.'
'adventure','Alan Gaskell (Clark Gable) is an abrasive, gambling, captain of a tramp steamer, the "Kin Lu," chugging between Singapore and Hong Kong. Tensions are high before the Kin Lu sails from Hong Kong because pirates are discovered disguised as women passengers while others try to smuggle weapons aboard. Dolly Portland (Jean Harlow) is Alan''s former girlfriend, who Alan later describes at the Captain''s table as a "professional entertainer," and travels with her maid. Meanwhile, another of Alan''s former loves, aristocratic Sybil Barclay (Rosalind Russell) from Sussex, England boards the Kin Lu. "I am in your hands again," Barclay taunts Gaskell, and eventually they plan to marry when the steamer docks in Singapore. However, Dolly tries to win back Alan. Meanwhile, Jamesy McArdle (Wallace Beery) is a corrupt passenger, in league with a gang of pirates who plan to steal the gold shipment of GBP250,000 gold bullion being carried on the steamer.[3] Portland discovers the plot and attempts to warn Capt. Gaskell against McArdle but he deflects her warnings. In calm seas, following a typhoon in which the ship suffered damage to its cargo and the deaths of some crew, the Kin Lu is boarded by Malay pirates, as McArdle expected and with whom he is in alliance. The pirates steal personal possessions from passengers. Unable to find gold in the ships strongbox, which Capt. Gaskell has replaced with sand, they torture Capt. Gaskell using a Malay Boot but the captain will not reveal the gold''s location. Instead, with bravado, Gaskell instructs the pirates, as they prepare to torture him: "My size is 9C", before fainting from pain. While leaving the ship, minus the gold they intended to steal, the pirate''s ship is bombed by a passenger, who commits suicide using a Mills Bomb as a grenade, and later strafed by Capt. Gaskell. Their ship sinks in the China Seas. Frustrated by the failed robbery McArdle commits suicide. When the Kin Lu docks in Singapore, Captain Gaskell, still limping due to his torture, settles that his love for Sybil is superficial. Instead he recognises that Dolly gave him good warning and he loves her more. They decide to marry. He says farewell to Sybil. As the film closes Capt. Gaskell reveals the gold was safe all along, hidden inside the ship''s cargo.'
'historical','In 1748, the British, French, Dutch and Portuguese are fighting over India. Back in England, Robert Clive (Colman) fires and misses in a duel; his opponent walks up to him, points his pistol at Clive''s head and demands he retract his accusation of cheating. When Clive refuses, the other man declares him "mad" and leaves. Later, frustrated with the boredom of being a clerk, Clive recalls firing a pistol at his own head and having it misfire twice, only to have his friend fire it without a problem. This causes him to wonder if he is "destined for something after all." He is sent to India in disgrace, still a clerk (for the East India Company at Fort St. George). He is fascinated by a picture of a beautiful woman in the locket of his friend and fellow clerk Edmund Maskelyne. He discovers that she is Edmund''s sister and declares he wants to marry her, even though they have never even met. He later brazenly writes to her, asking her to come to India, a year-long journey. When the French attack, Clive sees his destiny, as a soldier. The army is poorly manned and led. He persuades Edmund into transferring to the army as well. When the British are besieged in Trichinopoly, Clive sneaks out through the enemy lines without orders to confront the British Governor Pigot and his council. Finding they have no idea what to do, he offers to lift the siege, even though they can raise only 120 men, by attacking Arcot, the "capital of southern India". They agree. Clive sets out immediately with his small force, captures Arcot and raises the siege. In less than a year, he conquers all of southern India. Margaret arrives, but is intimidated by his great success. His plans are unchanged, however, and they get married. They return to England to a magnificent London mansion. He wins a seat in Parliament, then loses it. Clive loses all his money showering (unwanted) luxuries on his wife and contesting elections. Fortunately, the East India Company wants him to return to India. Colonel Clive demands the unconditional release of 146 British prisoners, but King of "Northern India" Suraj Ud Dowlah throws them into the "Black Hole of Calcutta"; only a handful survive the ordeal. Enraged, Clive makes a secret treaty with Suraj''s uncle, Mir Jaffar, despite lacking the authority to do so. Royal Navy Admiral Watson refuses to sign the treaty, but Clive forges his signature. Advancing against the enemy, Clive hesitates to cross a river, soon to be made impassible by the annual monsoon rains, without a firm commitment from Mir Jaffar. The governor and Edmund Maskelyne advise caution, and he reluctantly orders a retreat, but a supportive letter from his wife changes his mind, and Clive boldly leads his small army across. After much initial success, his men are about to be routed by Suraj''s war elephants at the Battle of Plassey when Mir Jaffar finally commits his forces, ensuring victory. Clive sails home to England to enjoy retirement on a country estate with his wife. However, Picot arrives with dire news: India is in chaos, all those Clive placed in power have been replaced by corrupt men, and Mir Jaffar has been deposed. Pigot offers Clive absolute authority to set things right. Clive accepts, but his decision comes at the cost of a rupture with his wife, who refuses to go with him. Clive not only restores the situation, he expands the territories controlled by the British. However, all the men he got rid of travel to England and accuse him of accepting bribes. Clive defends himself, but to no avail. At this dark time, his wife returns to him. The Prime Minister himself brings the news: the verdict is not in his favour, but he will most likely be allowed to retain his wealth and honour. The Prime Minister also passes along the private praise of King George.'
'comedy','Julie Fresnel, the daughter of a new French professor on the campus of Rudgate College, becomes the center of all attractions.[3] One of her admirers get murdered, followed by a second and a third one.[3] Eventually, she is rescued from a house with a time bomb.[3]'
'comedy','The irresponsible Jerry Craig inherits a school from an aunt. He goes there with pal Sourpuss and press agent Scoop, transforms the place into a charm school encounters a stranger named Joe who becomes a financial benefactor. The school''s a huge success. Jerry''s loyalties are torn between his fiancée Eunice and secretary Juliet, then complications develop when Joe doesn''t turn out to be who he seems to be.'
'mystery, horror','The film opens with a trio of explorers in Africa who are hiding in a cave. One of the explorers, a pregnant woman, is bitten by a vampire bat. The film then cuts forward in time to a small European village where a series of mysterious murders are taking place. The villagers readily assemble in mob form, with torches, at the house of Professor Kristan (Ralph Morgan) after every murder. The villagers suspect that a giant bat is to blame for the murders. Kristan gives the villagers advice on staying safe, and assures them a scientific explanation exists. However, in subsequent scenes, Kristan himself is revealed to be the murderer. He is seized by attacks (triggered by darkness) which transform him into a trance-like state of murderousness. After he commits a murder, he awakens from the trance with no memory of the deed, believing himself merely to have fainted. Kristan''s obliviousness is further enabled by the intervention of his loyal hunchback Zan, the only person aware of Kristan''s condition. Zan follows Kristan when he is in his trances, ensuring the professor is not discovered. An old friend of Kristan''s named Dr. Bizet arrives to visit, and soon suspects what is happening. Bizet discloses to Kristan that his mother was bitten by a vampire bat, and that traits of vampirism have likely been passed down to him per Lamarckism. (The audience now understands the pregnant explorer in the opening flashback to have been Kristan''s mother.) After Kristan''s fiance (Maxine Doyle) is attacked by an entranced Kristan, the mob of villagers assumes Zan is culpable and chases him to the edge of a cliff inside a cave. Kristan arrives and confesses to the murders, despite Zan''s protestations (aimed at saving the professor) that he, the hunchback, is in fact the murderer. As the mob watches, Kristan throws himself over the edge of the cliff and Zan follows.'
'horror','Dr. Andre Crespi (von Stroheim) hates Dr. Stephen Ross (Bohn), who married Crespi''s girlfriend, Estelle (Harriet Russell). During surgery, Ross appears to die. Crespi has given Ross a drug that induces a state of apparent death, while Ross retains all of his senses. Dr. John Arnold (Guilfoyle) is then asked to exhume Ross by the suspicious Dr. Thomas (Frye). They exhume the body and return to the hospital to prove he was poisoned. Ross awakens from the drug while on the autopsy table. Frye received his highest billing in any of his films for this feature, and performs one of his few non-maniacal roles. He had a more distinguished reputation for his stage work, including Broadway.'
'drama, adventure','The film takes many of its elements and main characters from the Third Crusade, which was prompted by the Saracen capture of Jerusalem and the crusader states in the Holy Land in A.D. 1187. The character of King Richard the Lionheart is established early as a man of action but little thought. A hermit arrives preaching a great Crusade to bring Jerusalem back into Christian hands. Richard enlists in order, cynically, to get out of an arranged betrothal to Princess Alice of France. A plot is laid against Richard''s life by his brother Prince John and Conrad, Marquis of Montferrat. En route to the war, Richard meets Berengaria, Princess of Navarre and—again cynically—marries her in exchange for food for his men. Berengaria accompanies Richard to the Holy Land. During the Crusaders'' attempts to get past the walls of Acre, the allies assemble in conference, but in disarray. Richard''s ally, Philip II of France, is enraged at Richard''s rejection of his sister Alice, but Richard defies Philip and the other troubled allies by proclaiming Berengaria Queen of England. The Christian leaders meet in parley with the Muslim Sultan and leader Saladin. Saladin is struck by Berengaria''s beauty and bravery in supporting her husband. However, he rejects any truce with the Crusaders, and declares that the arrogant Richard will "never pass the gates of Jerusalem." Berengaria is fearful that her presence in camp is causing disloyalty among Richard''s allies, in particular the powerful French King Philip, and may harm their holy quest. Seeking death, she enters no man''s land between the lines, only to be wounded and captured by the forces of Saladin. The hermit, the Christian "holy man" who had preached the Crusade, also is captured. Saladin escapes the siege, and brings Berengaria to Jerusalem to care for her, with admiration and growing affection. Not knowing this, and inflamed to save the Queen of England, Richard and the Crusaders storm Acre, then battle their way to Jerusalem. The internal plot against Richard''s life is hatched by Conrad and disloyal soldiers. Conrad reveals his plot to Saladin, expecting to be rewarded. Berengaria offers herself to Saladin if he will intervene and save Richard''s life. Saladin, moved by Berengaria''s loyalty to Richard and appalled at Conrad''s perfidy, orders Conrad to be summarily executed and Richard to be rescued. With their forces exhausted, Richard and Saladin agree to a truce, and Berengaria is freed. The gates of Jerusalem are opened to all Christians with the exception of Richard, in keeping with Saladin’s proviso. Forlorn, Richard only belatedly appreciates Berengaria’s loyalty and love for him. Richard encounters Berengaria on her way to the Holy City. He admits his mistakes, but Berengaria proceeds alone toward Jerusalem, their future together unknown.'
'musical','Young Elizabeth Blair (Shirley Temple) lives at the Lakeside Orphanage, a dreary, regimented place supervised by two decent but dour women. Her older sister Mary (Rochelle Hudson) works in the kitchen, laundry, and dormitory. Elizabeth is a sweet child but her high spirits often lead her into trouble with the superintendent. When the trustees descend on the orphanage for a tour of inspection, Elizabeth is caught playfully mimicking the head trustee and is threatened with being sent to a public institution. Young, rich, handsome trustee Edward Morgan (John Boles) intervenes. He takes a liking to Elizabeth and, in a private interview with the child, learns that most of her life has been spent obsequiously expressing her gratitude for every mouthful that has fallen her way. He adopts her but, not wanting to curb Elizabeth''s spirit by making her feel slavishly obligated to him for every kindness, he tells her a fictitious "Hiram Jones" is her benefactor and he is simply acting on Jones''s behalf as his lawyer. He nicknames her "Curly Top." Meanwhile, he has met and fallen in love with Elizabeth''s sister Mary but will not admit it. Elizabeth and Mary leave the orphanage and take up residence in Morgan''s luxurious Southampton beach house. His kindly aunt, Genevieve Graham (Esther Dale), and his very proper butler Reynolds (Arthur Treacher) are charmed by the two. Elizabeth has everything a child could want including a pony cart and silk pajamas. Mary secretly loves Morgan but, believing he has no romantic interest in her, she accepts an offer of marriage from young navy pilot Jimmie Rogers (Maurice Murphy). Morgan is taken aback but offers his congratulations. Hours later, Mary ends the engagement when she realizes she doesn''t truly love Jimmie. Morgan then declares his love, reveals he is the fictitious "Hiram Jones", and plans marriage and a long honeymoon in Europe with Mary.'
'drama','Jim Carter, a former stoker, takes over a fairground show, run by ''Pop'' McWade, which depicts scenes from Dante''s Inferno. He marries Pop''s niece Betty and they have a son, Alexander. Meanwhile, the show becomes a great success, with Carter making it larger and more lurid. An inspector declares the fair unsafe but Carter bribes him into silence. There is a partial collapse at the fair which injures Pop. Recovering in hospital, he admonishes Carter and we see a lengthy vision of the Inferno. Undeterred, Carter establishes a new venture with an unsafe floating casino, only for disaster to strike again at sea.'
'comedy','Two top reporters, male and female (Dunn, Clarke), fall in love and plan to marry, however as she waits for the groom at the church he never shows up. He was enticed into going undercover in a jail to expose gang activity inside the jail, being promised a lot of money and prestige for the story. Before leaving for the assignment he writes a letter to his beloved, but his publisher rips it up, so she thinks he has gotten cold feet and she gets angry at him for deserting her. Meanwhile, he exposes corrupt activity inside the jail. Will his beloved ever find out the truth of why he never showed up to marry her?'
'drama, romance','Kitty Vane, Alan Trent, and Gerald Shannon have been inseparable friends since childhood. Both Alan and Gerald are in love with Kitty, who in turn has been infatuated with Alan her entire life. Gerald and Alan are drafted into World War I. They return home for ten days, during which time Alan proposes to Kitty and she joyously accepts. Despite his own love for Kitty, Gerald gives the couple his blessing. However, the newly engaged couple’s happiness is cut short when Gerald and Alan are ordered back into service the very next day. Kitty and Alan search for somebody to marry them, but nobody is available. They decide they do not need to officially marry, and agree to spend the night together before Alan must return to the war. Alan and Kitty book a room in an inn. Kitty’s cousin Lawrence sees Alan taking champagne and flowers up the room and works out that Alan has a woman in his room, unaware that it is Kitty. The next day, Lawrence teases Alan about the previous night. Gerald misunderstands and believes Alan has cheated on Kitty. When Gerald confronts him, Alan does not reveal he in fact spent the evening with Kitty, so as to protect her reputation. Gerald, furious for Kitty’s sake, refuses to grant Alan leave so he can return home and marry Kitty properly. Instead, Gerald inadvertently pressures Alan to join a dangerous mission. Alan nobley volunteers. Months later and Gerald returns home to Kitty. They both mourn the death of Alan, believed to be killed in an explosion. Together they realise Gerald’s misunderstanding and conclude that they are both, in a way, to be blamed for Alan’s death. Both consumed with grief, they end up growing closer and developing feelings for one another. Meanwhile, it is revealed that Alan did not die. He lost his eyesight and was cared for in a German hospital, adopting the name of Roger Crane so that his family could not locate him. A doctor, George Barton, finds a photograph of Alan, Kitty and Gerald and realises that Alan has changed his name to escape his past. George allows “Roger” to leave. Alan plans to return to Kitty, but has a change of mind at the last minute when he believes people will pity Kitty and that she will only care for him out of duty. He leaves town and stays in an inn. He becomes friendly with the innkeeper’s children, Betty, Joe and Ginger. Inspired by his friendship with them, he begins to write a series of successful children’s books, and is able to move into his own home with a private secretary. George Barton visits Alan, still living as “Roger”, and sees in the paper a photograph of Kitty and Gerald with the announcement that they are to be married. Recognising them as the couple from Alan’s photograph and realising that Alan is still in love with Kitty, George contacts them. Gerald at first does not recognise the name Roger Crane, but works out who he really is. Gerald and Kitty go to visit Alan, who attempts to conceal his blindness from them. At first, they do not realise he cannot see, causing Kitty to believe Alan has distanced himself from her and no longer loves her. She wishes to part as friends and holds her hand out to him, but he cannot see and she believes he has rejected her. Gerald, however, realises the truth and encourages Kitty to go back into the house. Alan, hearing footsteps, believes his secretary is in the room and begins talking to her, causing Kitty to realise Alan is blind. She does not care and hurries over to Alan, where they finally profess their love for each other. Gerald leaves them to reunite.'
'western','John Mason chases after his father''s killer, an outlaw who remains elusive until he is tricked into revealing himself with a decoy gold shipment. To complicate matters, the killer is the brother of Alice, the woman with whom Mason has fallen in love. Alice begs Mason not seek vengeance, but a showdown is inevitable.'
'mystery','While a distinguished astronomer is giving a lecture in a planetarium, a shot rings out and one of the audience member is found dead. A tough detective and a brassy female reporter lock horns as they both try to break the case.'
'western','Rodeo star John Scott (John Wayne) and his gambler friend Kansas Charlie (Eddy Chandler) are wrongly accused of armed robbery at the Rattlesnake Gulch rodeo (with an admission price of $1) just after John Scott gets his rodeo prize money. The Rodeo Official is robbed and murdered by Pete (Al Ferguson) and Jim (Paul Fix) a minute after Scott and Kansas Charlie leave. Pete tells authorities he just saw John and his friend Kansas Charlie leaving the office. Now fugitives, John and Charlie flee to another town where they assume new names. There they compete for the affections of a woman who runs a store, Jim''s sister Anne Whitaker (Mary Kornman). Later, John and Charlie interrupt a stagecoach holdup by Pete and Jim. But after John brings the stagecoach and its passengers back to town, Pete shows up and fingers them for the crime. John and Charlie find themselves in jail. Jim, knowing they are innocent and feeling guilty for his part in the crimes, helps bust them out. John and Charlie head after Pete to try to get a confession, with a posse riding hard behind them.'
'comedy, drama','Lieut. Bill Brannigan (Pat O''Brien) invites friend and hotshot pilot Tommy O''Toole (James Cagney), the self-styled "world''s greatest aviator", to join the USMC Reserve Aviator training program. O''Toole arrives and promptly starts to move in on Brannigan''s love interest, Betty Roberts (Margaret Lindsay), and in typical cocky fashion, antagonizes nearly everyone else. Although not temperamentally suited for the military, O''Toole completes primary training and after surviving an accident, eventually realizes that he is willing to change. After a competition in the air with his friend Brannigan, and for the attentions of Betty, there is a predictable conclusion with O''Toole coming out the victor.'
'comedy, drama','The story unfolds amidst the festivities of Seville’s Carnival set in the fin de siècle Spain. The events revolve around four characters – there are no subplots. Concha "Conchita" Perez: a beautiful, piquant and heartless factory girl who seduces and discards her lovers without remorse – an irresistible femme fatale. Antonio Garvan: a young bourgeois revolutionary, one step ahead of Seville’s police. He is narcissistic, yet good-natured, and lucky with women. Captain Don Pasqual Costelar: a middle-aged aristocrat and Captain of the Civil Guard. His conservative exterior conceals powerful salacious impulses. Governor Don Paquito: A minor character. The despotic commander of Seville’s police force, who is responsible for maintaining order during the festivities,. Don Paquito is susceptible to the charms of attractive women.[1] The film’s narrative is presented in four scenes, the second of which contains a series of flashbacks. Scene 1 – The boulevards of Seville are jammed with revelers wearing grotesque costumes, masks and parade sculptures. A detachment of Civil Guards stagger among the masqueraded merrymakers, bewildered by the “riotous disorder”. A frenzied merriment prevails. Antonio Galvan mixes with the crowds, evading the authorities who pursue him. He makes eye contact with the dazzling Concha, who is perched on an garish street float. The coquette flees into throng with Antonio in pursuit: he is rewarded with a secret note inviting him to meet with her in person that evening. Scene 2 – Antonio has a chance encounter with a friend of years past, Don Pasqual. The younger man, consumed with the image of the lovely Concha, asks the older gentleman what he knows of the mysterious girl. Don Pasqual solemnly relates the details of his fateful relationship with the young temptress in a series of vignettes. His tale is the confession of a man in thrall to the devastating girl. She subjects him to ridicule and humiliation, manipulating Don Pasqual in the manner of a puppet master – to which he submits. His public prestige and authority is shattered and he resigns his commission in disgrace. Satisfied with her conquest, she flings him aside.[2] Don Pasqual assures Antonio that any desire he has felt for Concha is utterly extinguished. He further exhorts the young man to avoid any contact with the temptress, and Antonio vows to heed his warning. Scene 3 – Don Pasqual’s cautionary tale has produced the opposite effect on Antonio and he keeps his rendezvous with enigmatic Concha. Alone together in a room at a club nocturne, Antonio confronts her with Don Pasqual’s tale of betrayal. A handwritten note arrives during the interview – a note from Don Pasqual declaring his undying love for Concha. She reads the confidential confession to Antonio, who responses by passionately kissing her. Moments later, Don Pasqual enters their private quarters, where his motivations for lecturing his young rival on the dangers of the devilish Concha are fully exposed. He compounds his duplicity by accusing Antonio of breaking his oath. Concha leaps to Antonio’s defense and insultingly dismisses her erstwhile lover. Don Pasqual slaps Antonio – a formal insult – and a duel is arranged. Don Pasqual departs, after demonstrating his expert marksmanship with a pistol. Concha pledges to accompany Antonio to Paris after the duel. The suitors meet at a secluded location the following morning. Concha accuses Don Pasqual of threatening to kill “the only man I ever cared for”. When the duelists step to their positions, Don Pasqual declines to discharge his pistol, and is gravely wounded by Antonio’s bullet. The police, notified of the illegal combat, arrive and arrest the fugitive Garvan. Don Paquel is taken to the hospital. Scene 4 – Concha, desperate to rescue Antonio, turns her charms on Governor Paquito, and obtains his authorization form her lovers release from prison. Paquito gratuitously issues her two passports that will allow them to escape to Paris. Concha visits the hospital where the mortally wounded Don Pasqual is clinging to life. She acknowledges her debt to her former flame for sparing Antonio’s life; Pasqual spurns her, but she detects that he still adores her. Concha and Antonia make their way to the border crossing with France and pass customs without incident. The train will depart momentarily, and Antonio eagerly enters their carriage. Concha hesitates, then informs the station master that she is not boarding. When the shocked Antonio calls to her from the window of the moving train, she announces that she intends to rejoin the dying Don Pasqual and she reenters Spain.'
'biopic','Diamond Jim Brady (Edward Arnold) is born to an Irish saloonkeeper and his wife in 1856, but is soon orphaned. At the age of thirty, working as baggage master at the Spuyten Duyvil train station, he rents a suit and a diamond from a pawn shop, and gets a job as a salesman; soon, he is the top salesman on the staff. While on a cross-continental sales trip, Brady rescues Mr. Fox (Eric Blore) from a crooked salesman, but in the process they are forced to jump from the train. Brady soon discovers that Mr. Fox is trying to sell something called an "undertruck" to be used at railroad stations, so he takes on the product himself. With success, Brady wants to marry his sweetheart, Emma Perry (Jean Arthur), but finds out that she is engaged. Heartbroken, he devotes all of his energy to the Brady-Fox Company. A grand success, Brady has ostentatious diamond jewelry designed for him, leading to his nickname, "Diamond Jim Brady". Brady spares no expense to indulge his every whim, lavishing money on wine, women, song and especially food. Brady sees singer Lillian Russell (Binnie Barnes) perform, introduces himself, and soon he is promoting her career and flirting with her. Russell, however, is in love with businessman Jerry Richardson (Cesar Romero). Brady soon meets Jane Matthews (Jean Arthur again), a lookalike for Emma, and is instantly smitten with her. They become engaged, but on the eve of their wedding, Brady gets drunk because of his suspicions about Jane''s relationship with a banker named "Briggs" who is supposedly her "uncle", and the wedding is called off. Jane remains his friend, but refuses to give in to his occasional proposals – for one thing, she has fallen in love with Jerry, but neither want to tell Brady for fear of hurting his feelings. When the stock market crashes, Brady loses his fortune, and starts again from scratch, promoting a steel railroad car for its supposed safety. He is injured during a public demonstration of the car, and spends a year recovering in the hospital, while at the same time rebuilding his fortune. When he gets out, he plans a trip to Europe for himself, Jane, Lillian and Jerry, during which he believes he will finally get Jane to marry him. Instead, Jane and Jerry confess their love, the news of which shatters Jim. On the rebound, he proposes to Lillian, but she rejects him as well. Despondent, he returns home and prepares to eat himself to death, but not before burning up all the I.O.U.''s in his possession.'
'comedy','When top Broadway bookmaker Odds Owen (Warren William) loses $50,000 on a horse owned by Everett Markham (Clay Clement), he investigates and founds out that the horse was doped. Owen visits Everett and lets him know that Everett will be selling his horses and paying back the $50,000. Owen is inspired by hearing about Lloyds of London. He decides to go into the business of underwriting unusual insurance policies. Everett is a friend to actress Marilyn Youngblood (Claire Dodd). Marilyn supports her ne’er do well father, Colonel Youngblood (Guy Kibbee), and she is dating rich playboy Dwight Board (Walter Byron) who is also a hypochondriac. Everett convinces Marilyn’s father to take out a 3-year insurance policy against Marilyn getting married. If she gets married within three years, her father gets 50,000. Owen agrees to insure the policy. Owen’s men get rid of Dwight by convincing him that marriage could kill someone with a weak heart. Marilyn starts seeing David Van Dusen (Errol Flynn). Owen’s men go to the restaurant where Marilyn and Van Dusen are eating and pretend to be shady characters who know Van Dusen. One of them walks by and hands Van Dusen an envelope with money. Another hands him a gun wrapped in a handkerchief. Marilyn, convinced he is a gangster, breaks up with him. Marilyn notices Owen nearby and remarks on how strange it is to see him again when she is breaking up with someone. Owen is attracted to Marilyn and starting starts dating her, ostensibly to keep her from dating anyone else. Marilyn’s father tells her about the insurance policy. She decides to make Owen fall for her and he does. To get back at Owen, Marilyn becomes engaged to Everett. Now Everett will have his revenge. Owen will lose $50,000 and Marilyn. Owen tells Everett he won’t welch but he doesn’t think Everett will marry Marilyn. Owen has fallen in love with her, placing him in a dilemma, caught between the heart and the wallet. Marilyn’s father begs Owen to stop the wedding. Marilyn, at the church, is hoping the same thing. Everett doesn’t show up for the wedding. Owen appears in his place and Marilyn happily marries him. Owen’s men pay off dozens of cabbies who have caused a traffic jam which prevented Everett from getting to the church.'
'comedy drama','At Hampstead Court Housewives Club, two women sit in the living room with a fireplace. Outside it''s raining. One of the women reads a book (a Biography of Madame Du Barry); the other woman is nervously looking in the room and finally decides to look up the newspaper. When she sees a certain announcement she has to talk, saying to the other woman how beautiful it would be to leave dreadful London and go south to Italy, renting a Castle for two or more people and splitting the costs. So they find the way to San Salvatore and the Enchanted April is there from the very minute they arrived. Their husbands and lovers are soon popping up and passing by, and the Italians who know, understand the English people. A mixture of slapstick comedy and on the other side the rarefied figure of Ann Harding.'
'comedy, romance','Set somewhere in Vienna in the 1900s (decade), the film opens with a successful surgeon (Morgan), feeing[clarification needed] for the affection of his wife (Bruce). As does his brother, a concert conductor (Owen), for his flirtatious gal (Christians). Both women have something in common: they are in love with a philandering painter (Powell). The surgeon''s wife contacts the artist and allows herself to be painted while only dressed in furs, with her face covered by a mask. The painting headlines the newspapers, and the entire city wonders who the mysterious masked lady is. The surgeon recognizes his brother''s fiancee''s furs in the painting, and is troubled. He is unaware that his own wife has borrowed the fur, though, and feels terribly sorry for his brother. Together, the brothers decide to confront the artist, but he denies having met either of the men''s wife. When the brothers challenge him to a duel if he does not tell them the name of the woman who posed for him, the artist randomly picks the name "Major". In the phone book, it turns out that one lady in Vienna is named Major: Leopoldine (Rainer). She is the companion of a socially prominent countess, and is startled by the claim that she was the model. The painter falls in love with her, but the prior affair with a married woman causes complications.'
'comedy','When Mary Beekman (Irene Ware) loses her waitress job, after a fight with her loutish boyfriend, trucker Mike O’Reilly (Edward Gargan) she stands at a bridge on a windy night, losing her pay check through a windblown and leans over the guardrail of the bridge to catch it. Socialite Kenneth Alden (Sidney Blackmer) catches her, thinking she wants to jump the bridge. He’s lost everything that is not already mortgaged. Both down on their luck, they assume that the other is there to jump off the bridge. Instead, Mary has an idea. If Ken sells shares to a syndicate of his wealthy friends, in a phoney beauty product, they’ll have enough money for some clothes to pass Mary off in society, long enough to meet and marry a wealthy bachelor. Then, they can pay everyone back, with interest. The con might work, except that Ken has too much integrity to marry for money to Clarissa (Betty Compson) (whom he loves for years), and Mary is beginning to see his point when she falls for Pat (Russell Hopton), who has secrets of his own. The plot boils over when Mike shows up to blow the lid off. Pat''s valet is a thief, who promised not to act foolishly. But he escapes with a stolen Tiara. Meantime Mary thinks to leave as things do not work out, so she shares the taxi to the station with Pat''s valet escaping with the Tiara. After a police chase, Mary is hauled off to the station. It looks like no one is going to end up with anything, but a bad reputation; but, it’s not over yet, in this curious, romantic comedy, about the social set, in 1930''s America, from Chesterfield films.[2]'
'drama','In 1925 London, middle-aged, widowed shopkeeper Clarissa Phipps (Pauline Lord) pities genteel, but homeless drunkard Captain Randolph Courtney (Basil Rathbone) and takes him in. When Courtney corrects the lower-class accent and grammar of her son Richard, a germ of an idea is born. Richard benefits from Courtney''s tutelage as he grows up. Ten years later, on Richard''s twenty-first birthday, Clarissa makes a startling announcement. She is not his mother, but was merely hired to raise him for his upper-class parents. She gives him a bank passbook with a balance of £1000 as arranged with his real mother and asks him to move out on his own. Richard (Louis Hayward) and Courtney are both stunned. Emily Judson (Nydia Westman), with whom Richard has grown up, is distressed as well; she had hoped to marry him, but now feels he is out of her reach. From Clarissa''s private papers and what she had said, Courtney guesses that Richard''s mother is Julia Trent Anders (Billie Burke), a former star actress. Would-be playwright Richard, seeking to get to know her, becomes a lodger in her mansion, where he also meets her absentminded scientist husband Paul (Victor Varconi) and her beautiful stepdaughter Pauline (Wendy Barrie). Richard and Pauline are attracted to each other, much to the annoyance of rival suitor Leo Cartwright (David Niven). Pauline becomes aware of Emily''s prior claim, however, and desists. When Julia discovers that her tenant has written a play (with a starring role suitable for her comeback), she introduces him to her friend, producer Sir Elroyd Joyce (Thurston Hall). Joyce reads his play as a favor to Julia; however, while he sees promise in Richard''s work, it would be too expensive for him to produce. When Clarissa finds out, she sells her shop and uses most of the proceeds to secretly finance it without Richard''s knowledge. She and Courtney proudly attend the premiere of Son of Sixpence. The play is a success, but the experience is too much for Clarissa, already in very bad health. On her deathbed, she admits to Richard that she is actually his mother after all. Emily, admitting defeat, concedes Richard to Pauline.'
'drama','A radical campus group persuades student Carol Arlington to lead a protest of a college''s football team. She manages to recruit Larry Davis, even though he is a star player for State''s team. Larry needs money to marry sweetheart Betty Wilson, but needs a job. Carol and the committee protest that the school is using its athletes to make a profit. A distracted Larry fumbles in the next game and is kicked off the team by Coach Parker, who is offended by Larry''s campus activities. With some asserting that Larry lost the game on purpose, a campus radical, Tony Tonetti, turns out to be an undercover agent investigating troublemakers trying to infiltrate the campus and influence the students. Larry is left out of the big season-ending game until the very end, when Parker has a change of heart, lets him play and ends up victorious.'
'drama','A suicidal woman, Lillian Belton (Maureen O''Sullivan), unsuccessfully attempts suicide by taking pills, and she is referred to a psychiatrist for therapy. While at the psychiatrist, Lillian attempts suicide again by trying to jump out the window, and she is only stopped by the psychiatrist, Dr. Mary White (Ann Harding). Dr. White learns that Lillian’s troubles are connected to Jack Kerry, (Louis Hayward) who she contacted just prior to her attempt with the psychiatrist. Lillian loves Jack, but he is an alcoholic and does not love Lillian the way she loves him. Dr. White contacts Jack, and persuades him to seek treatment for his alcoholism. As Jack completes his treatment, he falls in love with Dr. White, but the Dr. reminds Jack of Lillian’s need for him, and Jack and Lillian marry. Lillian’s physician, Dr. Gordon Phillips (Herbert Marshall), is also in love with Dr. White, but cannot convince her to leave her patients and her practice. Dr. White encounters Lillian and Jack at a costume ball, and Jack manages to get a dance with Dr. White, as a suspicious Lillian looks on. Jack confesses his love for Dr. White, but she again reminds him of his marriage and commitment to Lillian. An enraged Lillian creates a scene with Dr, White, who uses this experience as a parallel of her and Dr. Phillips’ relationship.'
'drama, crime','Taft, a policeman, has fugitive murderer Tony Mako in custody and in handcuffs, two thousand miles from the prison from which Mako escaped. With four hours to kill, Taft takes his prisoner to a theater where the cop''s wife, Mae, is a hostess. Mae is an unfaithful schemer. She is trying to extort $200 from coat-check kid Eddie, insinuating she is pregnant. Eddie doesn''t want his fiancee Helen to hear this, true or otherwise, so he tries to raise the money to pay Mae''s blackmail. Eddie is also suspected of stealing an expensive piece of jewelry. Mako made the journey this far in the hope of gaining revenge against Anderson, a man who informed on him. After telling Taft he would prefer a quick death to a painful execution, Mako breaks free and shoots Anderson before being shot by Taft, dying the kind of death he wanted. Eddie is cleared and now free to marry Helen, while Mae is taken away to jail.'
'drama','Freckles, a young man and orphan, shows up at a lumber camp, where the local schoolteacher, Mary Arden, takes a shine to him and convinces the lumber company''s owner, McLean, to hire Freckles as a guard. While working there, Freckles begins a relationship with Mary, while Laurie-Lou Duncan, a precocious young girl also befriends Freckles and helps him learn more about the forest and the plants it contains. Laurie-Lou has a pet bear cub, and one day when the cub is in danger of being injured by a tree about to be felled by the lumberjacks, she attempts to untie it, but the tree begins to fall before she can finish. Seeing her danger, Freckles rushes to her, and pulls her out of the way of the falling tree. The bear cub, Cubby, is injured, but survives his injuries. Laurie-Lou also meets Jack Carter, a felon, who is hiding out in a cabin in the woods with several friends of his, who happen to be bank robbers. Carter gets on Laurie-Lou good side by carving wooden soldiers for her. Wanting him to make a figure she is missing from her set, she hides in his car to follow him to his home, hoping to convince him to make it for her. However, once there, she is held captive by Carter''s felon friends. When she doesn''t return, Freckles tracks her to Carter''s cabin, where he too is captured. However, he surprises his captors by escaping, although he is wounded by a gunshot during his exit. He does not abandon Laurie-Lou, instead returning to the room where she is being held, and barring the door. As the felons attempt to break in, she shows him where a gun and ammo are kept. Unfamiliar with the weapon, he fumbles to load it as the bank robbers get close to gaining entry. Just in time, he loads the weapon, surprising the criminals and holding them at bay. He is becoming weak from loss of blood when Arden arrives with the police, having learned of their location from Laurie-Lee''s mother. The criminals are captured, and Freckles and Arden agree to marry.'
'drama, adventure','In San Francisco in the 1850s, a city where gold fever has left shipowners short-handed, Bat Morgan, a sailor come ashore is robbed and nearly shanghaied aboard another ship. Managing to escape, he sticks around town to pay back those responsible and then to take a cut in the action in the vice district. Organizing the various gambling houses (and other forms of vice implied but, for Code reasons, not explicitly stated) into a consolidated enterprise in alliance with a corrupt city boss, Jim Dailey, he comes into conflict with a crusading newspaper, run by Jean Barrat, the daughter of the late murdered publisher, and Charles Ford, the idealistic editor. Loyal to his friends, even when they are on the other side, Bat Morgan protects the editor, when Jim Dailey orders him eliminated. He also falls in love with Jean, but his way of life and lack of any morality beyond looking out for number one make a permanent relationship all but impossible. Riled at a judge''s snub, he determines to bring his Barbary Coast crowd to the opening night at the Opera House, which the Judge has opened as an alternative place of amusement to the gambling dens. A gambler, Paul Morra, shoulders his way into the judge''s box and on a flimsy excuse, murders him. The outrage provokes a public outcry, and when Morra is arrested and jailed and a lynch mob gathers, crying for his blood, Bat arranges his release, not so much because he likes him as because he owes him a debt of gratitude for having started him on the upward rise. Soon after, Ford is murdered by Jim Dailey in a bar-room fight. Jean blames Bat, holding him responsible for all the evil done by those who work with him. A vigilance movement sets out to clean up the town, rounding up Morra and Dailey, and hanging them both. When the lowlife of the Barbary Coast determine to pay it back by wrecking the press and burning the city, Bat Morgan convinces them to do otherwise. Trying to keep them from fighting back as the vigilantes come to destroy the Coast, he is shot in the back by one of the underworld forces and captured by the vigilantes. Jean Barrat saves him from hanging, and he is permitted to go free, on her parole.'
'drama','California gubernatorial candidate Burton (Lyon) is about to cast his vote, when a truck crashes into the polling booth, critically injuring him and his opponent. A flashback traces his career from unemployed veteran to dockworker in San Francisco to lawyer. A side story traces his tortured relationship with his wife,'
'drama, romance','Ellen Garfield refuses to marry fellow reporter Curt Devlin until he admits she is as good at her craft as any man. The two work for rival newspapers, and their ongoing efforts to better each other eventually leads to Ellen getting fired when Curt tricks her into misreporting the verdict of a murder trial. The tables are turned when she scoops him by getting the real perpetrator, Inez Cordoza, to confess to the crime. Forced to admit Ellen is a good reporter, he finally wins her hand.'
'drama, crime','One year after graduation, New York City lawyer James "Brick" Davis (James Cagney) has no clients because he refuses to compromise with his ideals and integrity. His friend Eddie Buchanan (Regis Toomey) tries to recruit him as a federal agent or "G Man" (government man), but Davis is unsure. However, when Buchanan is killed while trying to arrest a gangster, Davis changes his mind, determined to bring the killer to justice. He bids farewell to his mentor, "Mac" MacKay (William Harrigan), a mob boss who financed his education to keep Davis on the right side of the law. He bids farewell to Jean Morgan (Ann Dvorak), the star of MacKay''s nightclub who has feelings for Davis. Davis travels to Washington, D.C. to begin his training. A mutual dislike forms immediately between him and his instructor, Jeff McCord (Robert Armstrong) which eventually subsides as time passes, but not before McCord openly mocks and derides Davis'' attempts at training -something the Tom Powers Cagney would have never stood for. The scenes give Cagney''s Davis a maturity seldom seen before in his roles, while portraying Armstrong as a bully and excessively childish. In addition, Davis is attracted to McCord''s sister Kay (Margaret Lindsay) which strengthens his determination to remain passive despite McCord''s efforts to rile him. Meanwhile, MacKay retires and buys a resort lodge out in the woods of Wisconsin. His men, free of his restraint, embark on a crime spree. Hamstrung by existing laws (federal agents have to get local warrants and are not even allowed to carry guns), the head of the G-Men pleads for new laws to empower his beleaguered men. They are enacted with great speed. Davis identifies one of the perpetrators, Danny Leggett (Edward Pawley), by his superstition of always wearing a gardenia. Not having completed his training, he can only give agent Hugh Farrell (Lloyd Nolan) tips on Leggett''s habits. Farrell tracks down and arrests his quarry, but he and some of his men are gunned down, and Leggett escapes. McCord is put in charge of the manhunt and given his choice of five agents. He picks Davis, a decision that later pays dividends when Jean is brought in for questioning, Davis learns she is now married to Collins (Barton MacLane), one of the crooks. She inadvertently lets slip that the gang is hiding out at MacKay''s lodge (against MacKay''s will). In the ensuing wild shootout, Davis kills MacKay, who was being used as a human shield. Before he dies, MacKay forgives his distraught friend. Davis then tries to resign from the department but McCord talks him out of it by reminding him that McKay''s death wasn''t his fault and asks him to stay on. Only Collins gets away. McCord and Davis go to Jean''s apartment to warn her. Jean is not there, but Collins is, and shoots at them. Davis pushes McCord out of the way and takes a bullet meant for him. Collins gets away. Davis ends up in the hospital (where Kay is a nurse) for his shoulder wound. Collins kidnaps Kay to use as a hostage. Jean finds out where he is hiding and telephones Davis, only to be shot by her husband. Davis bolts from his hospital bed, has some final words for the dying Jean, sneaks inside the garage and rescues Kay. Collins is shot to death by McCord as he tries to drive away. Kay escorts the still-bandaged Davis back to the hospital, vowing to "handle your case personally."'
'romantic comedy','Secretary Mirabel Miller (Frances Dee) wins a lottery and decides to live it up in a luxurious New York hotel (The Waldorf-Plaza), where she clashes with a bellboy (Francis Lederer) who is more than he appears to be.'
'musical','The film centers on real-life stage and screen producer George White as he gathers acts for his new Broadway revue. At the top of his list is blonde Alice Faye. Also appearing in the film was James Dunn and Cliff Edwards. George White''s 1935 Scandals is best remembered as the major film debut of a young dancer named Eleanor Powell, here performing a "specialty dance". Powell, already a Broadway star, had played bit parts in a couple of films prior to this, but Scandals was her first major film role. According to her introduction to the book Gotta Sing, Gotta Dance, a mix-up in the make-up department resulted in her being made to look almost Egyptian and she left the production so disenchanted with movie-making, she initially rejected a contract offer by MGM that later in the year placed her in the popular Broadway Melody of 1936. Reportedly, Bill "Bojangles" Robinson filmed a dance routine for this film, but it was cut. Actress Jane Wyman appeared in the film as an uncredited chorine.'
'romance','Kay Parrish is the daughter of a former millionaire who lost everything in the stock market crash in 1929. She works as a waitress in a small country diner, where she meets Terrence Gallagher and Chuck Ahearn. Gallagher runs a speakeasy in New York City, where Ahearn works as his bouncer. Gallagher gives Kay his card, and tells him to look him up, but she scoffs at the idea. After they leave, Kay is told that her father has committed suicide. Determined to make something of her life, she travels to New York City to "make it big". Once in New York, however, she is unable to find a job. Desperate, she looks up Gallagher, who hires her as a "gigolette", a young prostitute to entertain male clients at his club the "Hee Haw". Not in love with her work, and having a budding romantic interest between her and Gallagher, she repeatedly attempts to get him to open a "legit" club. He refuses, and during her work, Kay meets the wealthy Gregg Emerson, who she becomes romantically involved with. Shortly after, Gallagher is forced by the new liquor license laws, but he declares his intention to open up a new club. Meanwhile, despite Kay being snubbed by his parents, Emerson declares his love for Kay and his intention to marry her. However, when Gallagher is in danger of losing his new club due to the extortion tactics of the gangster, Vanie Rourke, Kay gives Gallagher money to save the new club. The money was part of an engagement gift, and when he finds out, Emerson believes that Kay is in cahoots with Gallagher to defraud him. However, Gallagher is able to convince Emerson of Kay''s fidelity, and the two are reunited.'
'comedy, romance','Stenographer Marilyn David (Claudette Colbert) and newspaper reporter Peter Dawes (Fred MacMurray) meet every Thursday on a bench outside the New York Public Library to eat popcorn and watch the world go by. One day, Peter confesses his love to her, but she tells him she only considers him a friend—that someday she will find love when she meets the right man. Afterwards on the subway, Marilyn meets a wealthy English aristocrat, Lord Charles Gray Granton (Ray Milland), who is visiting New York incognito as a commoner. After she helps him escape a confrontation with a subway guard, he walks her home and the two flirt with each other. He does not tell her that his father is the Duke of Loamshire, nor does he mention that he is engaged to an Englishwoman. In the coming days they go on dates to Cony Island and have dinner together, and soon they fall in love. At their next Thursday meeting, Marilyn reveals to Peter that she has fallen in love someone. Disappointed, he tells her that things can never be the same between them, but assures her that she can always depend on his friendship. When Charles'' father, Lloyd Granton (C. Aubrey Smith), learns that his son intends to propose to an American girl, he insists that they first return to England to break off his current engagement properly. Charles visits Marilyn before he leaves and—still not revealing his identity—tells her that he found a job and will be out of town on business for a few weeks. The next day, Peter learns from his editor that the Duke of Loamshire and his son have been in New York for six weeks without the press being aware of it, and are preparing to sail back for England. While working on his usual shipping news column at the docks, Peter spots Duke Granton and his son Charles boarding a ship. After a brief interview, the duke gives Peter $100 to keep their names out of the newspapers. Annoyed at the duke''s arrogance, Peter publishes his column the following day, complete with a photo of the Grantons. When Marilyn sees that her "Charles" is in fact Lord Granton returning to England to marry his English fiancé—at least according to Peter''s story—she rushes to her friend heartbroken and reveals that Charles is the man she''s been dating. Believing that Charles was simply using her, Peter writes a fictitious article about Marilyn, whom he calls the "No" Girl, turning down Lord Granton''s marriage proposal and deciding to hold out for true love instead. The story causes an immediate scandal and generates sympathy for Marilyn who becomes an overnight celebrity. Meanwhile on the ship, the Grantons are informed of the scandal and that Charles'' fiancé has broken her engagement. Convinced that Marilyn is attempting to blackmail him, Charles sends her a telegram asking how much money she wants in return for her silence. That night while comforting Marilyn over drinks at the Gingham Café, Peter decides to capitalize on the publicity and her newfound celebrity. He works out a deal with the owner who gives Marilyn a job as a singer and dancer at the café—even though she cannot sing or dance. After a few singing and dancing lessons and a massive promotional campaign, Marilyn opens to a packed house. Despite her lack of talent, her self-effacing manner wins laughs from the audience who are completely won over by her innocence and charm. Through Peter''s clever management and publicity stunts, the "No" Girl becomes a household name and a nightclub star, with her image appearing on billboards, posters, and front page newspaper articles across the country. Despite her fame and popularity, Marilyn is unable to forget her feelings for Charles. Believing that if she sees him again she''ll get over him, Marilyn travels to London to perform her nightclub act. During one performance, she sees Charles in the audience; after sharing a romantic dance together, they agree to renew their relationship. A brokenhearted Peter graciously bows out of her life and returns to America so she can be happy. Later he sends her a box of popcorn as a reminder of their friendship. Meanwhile, life with Charles is not as perfect as she had envisioned. He seems more interested in her celebrity than in their love. When Charles invites her to go away with him to the country for a week—implying she is someone with loose morals—she assembles the press and announces that she''s "going home to sit on a bench and eat popcorn". Back in New York on a snowy Thursday night, Marilyn rushes through crowds of her admirers and makes her way to the library bench. Peter soon arrives with his popcorn, takes Marilyn in his arms, and kisses her passionately.'
'drama','Geoffrey Sherwood, rejected by Valentine French in favor of wealthier suitor John Marland, watches her wedding from outside the church. Inebriated, he becomes increasingly louder, drawing the attention of two policemen as well as Miriam Brady, a shopgirl on her lunch hour, who takes Geoff to a cafe to spare him from arrest. There they encounter Hugh Brown and Tony Hewlitt, two of his society friends, who offer Miriam $100 to keep an eye on Geoffrey and make sure he stays out of trouble. The following morning the couple discover that while under the influence of alcohol they were married by a justice of the peace. Miriam offers to give her new husband his freedom, but he decides to remain with her. They set up housekeeping in an apartment in a lower-class neighborhood, and while Geoff starts his own business, Miriam tries to improve herself with the assistance of Mrs. Martin, her landlady and a former showgirl. With his bride helping him to stay sober, Geoff succeeds and the marriage remains solid until Valentine decides she wants him back. Miriam confronts the woman in a restaurant and their ensuing argument is reported in the newspaper. Miriam leaves Geoff who, realizing he truly loves her, tells Valentine they have no future together, finds his wife, and gives her a wedding band as a sign of his commitment to their marriage.'
'drama, crime','Paul Madvig (Edward Arnold) controls crime and politics in the city, helped by the brains and brawn of Ed Beaumont (George Raft). As he throws his support behind Janet (Claire Dodd) Henry''s father in a political campaign, Paul also plans to marry her. Janet''s brother Taylor (Ray Milland) is a gambler heavily in debt to O''Rory (Robert Gleckler), a gangster whose club Paul intends to put out of business. Taylor, who has been romancing Paul''s younger sister Opal (Rosalind Keith), is found dead. The temperamental Paul falls under suspicion. Ed pretends to betray Paul while offering to work for O''Rory''s organization. He is beaten by Jeff (Guinn Williams), a brutal thug who works for O''Rory, and has to flee for his life. Paul is going to face murder charges, but Janet knows who is really behind her brother''s death. It''s up to Ed to get her to reveal the truth.'
'musical','Broadway star Al Howard (Al Jolson) has a habit of walking out on hit shows. His sister Molly (Glenda Farrell) promises his agent he will never do it again, but he is banned from Broadway. Molly tracks Al down in Mexico, where he is on a binge and tells him she is done taking care of him. When Molly runs into Dorothy Wayne (Ruby Keeler) a friend who is a dancer, she begs Dorothy to form a team with Al, because she can get Al a job if he has a partner. At first Molly is reluctant but finally agreed. It takes some work to convince Al, but he eventually agrees to form a team with Dorothy. They become a big success in Chicago. Dorothy falls in love with Al and thinking that he does not return her affection decides to quit the act. Al asks her to stay, telling her that he plans to open his own nightclub on Broadway. Molly introduces Al to Duke Hutchinson (Barton MacLane) a gangster who is willing to back the club as a showcase for his wife, Luana Bell (Helen Morgan) a torch singer who wants to make a comeback. Al flirts with Luana, Dorothy warns him about his involvement with Luana, but Al continues his flirtation with her. Duke gives Al an additional $30,000 to open the club, but before opening night, Al uses the money to post bond for Molly, who has been arrested on suspicion of murder. When Al turns down a proposal from Luana, she angrily tells Duke the club will not open on schedule, and he sends gunmen to kill Al. At the last minute, Molly is cleared of the murder and the necessary money is returned, with the show opening on time and to great applause. Duke tries to call off his gunmen, but Luana does not give them the message. Al finally realizes that he is in love with Dorothy and asks her to dinner. As they step out the door, Dorothy sees the gunmen and throws her body in front of Al. She is wounded and as Al holds her, he tells Dorothy that he loves her. The doctor proclaims that Dorothy will be fine and Al''s club is a huge success.'
'comedy, musical','In the resort of Lake Waxapahachie, the swanky Wentworth Plaza is where the rich all congregate, and where the tips flow like wine. Handsome Dick Curtis (Dick Powell) is working his way through medical school as a desk clerk, and when rich, penny-pinching Mrs. Prentiss (Alice Brady) offers to pay him to escort her daughter Ann (Gloria Stuart) for the summer, Dick can''t say no – even his fiancee, Arline Davis (Dorothy Dare) thinks he should do it. Mrs. Prentiss wants Ann to marry eccentric middle-aged millionaire T. Mosley Thorpe (Hugh Herbert), who''s a world-renowned expert on snuffboxes, but Ann has other ideas. Meanwhile her brother, Humbolt (Frank McHugh) has a weakness for a pretty face: he''s been married and bought out of trouble by his mother several times. Every summer, Mrs. Prentiss produces a charity show for the "Milk Fund", and this year she hires the flamboyant and conniving Russian dance director Nicolai Nicoleff (Adolphe Menjou) to direct the show. The parsimonious Mrs. Prentiss wants to spend the least amount possible, but Nicoleff and his set designer Schultz (Joseph Cawthorn) want to be as extravagant as they can, so they can rake off more money for themselves, and for the hotel manager (Grant Mitchell) and the hotel stenographer Betty Hawes (Glenda Farrell), who''s blackmailing the hapless snuffbox fancier Thorpe. Of course, Dick and Ann fall in love, Humbolt marries Arline, and the show ends up costing Mrs. Prentiss an arm and a leg, but in the end she realizes that having a doctor in the family will save money in the long run.'
'romantic comedy','Luisa Ginglebusher (Margaret Sullavan) is a young, naive orphan who is given a job as an usherette in a Budapest movie palace. Detlaff (Reginald Owen), a waiter she meets in the theatre, takes her to an exclusive party where, to hold off the advances of Konrad (Frank Morgan), a meat-packing millionaire a little too fond of drink, she picks a name from the phone book to be her "husband", hoping to do a good deed and divert some of Konrad''s wealth to someone else. When the lucky man, stuffy but poor Dr. Max Sporum (Herbert Marshall), gets a 5-year employment contract and a big bonus from Konrad, he thinks the millionaire is interested in him because of his ethical behavior, diligent hard work and integrity, but actually Konrad plans to send the "husband" to South America so that he will be free to seduce the girl. Many complications ensue when Lu gets curious about Sporum, and pays him a visit.[2][3][4]'
'mystery','The front page of a brochure depicts a globe with ribbons stating "INTEROCEANIC FIRE INSURANCE CO." and, underneath, "estd. 1872" and, still below, "OFFICES IN ALL PRINCIPAL CITIES". Turning to page 6., one sees a photograph of a building described above as "EXCELSIOR PAPER COMPANY" and below as "Insured by Interoceanic Fire Insurance Co." As a blazing inferno collapses the building in the photo, a policeman moves away the onlookers and one of them (Edmund Lowe) takes a few steps aside to find a woman (Ann Sothern), standing on a pile of crates, observing the fire. As he looks up at her, she says, "I wonder how it started". He responds by providing a bantering discourse on "two hundred and two ways of starting a fire", illustrating it by striking a match on his teeth. He then offers her a cigarette, then invites her for a beer ("nice cold beer is very nice after a hot fire"), then "some food" and, finally, "a little stroll through the park". She refuses all offers ("you seem to think I was born yesterday"), gets into a car and drives away, while the building collapses and a hand is seen putting an "X" across its photo on the ledger page. At a meeting of Interoceanic board of directors, the chairman (unbilled Russell Hicks) announces to the eight other members, "six big fires in as many weeks representing a total loss to this company of one million, eight hundred and seventy-two thousand, nine hundred and sixty-one dollars", while apple-chewing member Digby (unbilled Raymond Brown) adds, from the back of the room, "and ninety-four cents". The chairman turns to an investigator in the room, Mr. Grayson (Onslow Stevens) and demands results. Grayson explains that the fires appear to be the work of an arsonist ("one of our advertising booklets was mailed back to us anonymously") who draws an "X" across each business which he or she sets ablaze. The next is indicated as "ACME FUR COMPANY" and the cut-out letters "WHEN?". One of the board members (unbilled Edward Van Sloan) exclaims, "Arson! Arson! Every time you investigators get up a tree, you cry firebug". To which the apple-chewing Digby responds, "Better get Tom Fletcher back, boys". As the members discuss details, Grayson describes it as "the biggest campaign of crime ever aimed at a fire insurance company" and Digby chimes in, "well, that''s some kind of a record — better get Tom Fletcher back, boys — he''s the best insurance investigator in the country". Another member (unbilled John Ince) seconds it, "Digby''s right — Fletcher''s record in arson cases is unbeatable". The general manager, Mr. French (unbilled Sam Flint) objects, "and so are some of his other records...", but is overruled. Fletcher, the man in the opening scene, is at a bar, sharing drinks with three young women. When one reaches for a drink, he objects, "ah, ah, ah, teacher spank — you know my rules — sobriety test before every drink". The first one, Marie (unbilled Patricia Farley) fails "she sells seashells by the she sore". The next one, Nancy (unbilled Geneva Mitchell) also fails with "peter potter picked a peck of peckled pippers", as Grayson approaches to propose business. Fletcher tells him "I''m in conference" and gives a chance to the third girl, Sally (unbilled Dorothy Dehn), to prove her sobriety. She succeeds with "six sleek and supple salmon slept on a platter for supper". Grayson tells him that Interoceanic wants him back, but Fletcher replies that they can "go jump in a lake" adding that "they gave me a raw deal". Grayson convinces him by saying that the board is ready to "eat the well known humble pie". At that point, the two girls who failed start reciting their tongue twisters over each other. Fletcher leaves, giving the tab to Grayson, at company expense. Arriving at the meeting, Fletcher sits in the director''s chair and demands an office with a well-stocked refrigerator, a secretary ("not too young, not too old"), a car and a chauffeur ("any kind of a car will do, as long as it''s a Rolls-Royce"), a doubling of his old salary, plus a bonus of a hundred thousand dollars for catching the pyromaniac. After he leaves, the board member portrayed by Edward Van Sloan says, "a plain case of blackmail. I wouldn''t want to be quoted, but I bet he started those fires just to get his job back." As Grayson, having been replaced by Fletcher, starts to pack, Fletcher calls Mr. French to tell him that he wants Grayson as a co-investigator. As French voices his objections, Fletcher hangs up. A showgirl-type secretary (unbilled Iris Adrian) enters and announces that "Mr. French said I was to do your secretarial work". "Good old French", replies Fletcher, dictating a letter and sending Grayson to dismiss all the security people working on the endangered businesses, so that he can replace them with his own trusted people. Acme Fur Company, as expected, goes up in flames. On their way there, Fletcher and Grayson pass a car and Fletcher orders his driver to "cut across that car". Inside is the same woman Fletcher met at the Excelsior fire. She explains that she was not running away from the fire, but simply going to get a better look. Getting into Fletcher and Grayson''s car, she rides with them to the fire. Upon arriving, Fletcher leaves to investigate, while the woman introduces herself to Grayson as Adrienne Martin. Fletcher asks his man Tony, the organ grinder with a monkey (unbilled Monte Carter) who walks over to identify the man seen leaving the building. Questioned by Fletcher, the man identifies himself as Mr. Crane (unbilled Barlowe Borland), the owner. Meanwhile, upon being repeatedly asked by Adrienne about Fletcher, Grayson tells her that "when the honorable Tommy passes into the great beyond, half the girls in town will be out shopping for mourning outfits". Returning, Fletcher takes Grayson and Adrienne for drinks to his fancy apartment replete with Japanese valet Noah (Miki Morita). She tells him that "the young lady''s twenty-four, she''s lived in France for the past five years and she''s on orphan with no mother to guide her". When they toss a coin to decide who would take her home, she peeks at the coin and chooses Fletcher. She and Fletcher go to a bar and have a conversation about arson. He tells her, "oh, you can''t find out anything about a fire while it''s blazing. It''s like a love affair." She says, "you mean you never really understand it while it''s flaming?" and he replies, "it just happens… and later on…" She continues, "when it dies down…" and he finishes, "you find the reason for it… in the ashes."[3] Searching for clues in the smoldering ruins of Acme Fur, Fletcher runs into an old adversary, fire chief Mulligan (Robert Middlemass) and sees Adrienne who tells him that she wants to be a fireman. He puts a fireman''s hat on her head and administers a mock swearing-in oath. He shows her a burned-up phone which, he tells her, he collects at every fire. He brings it to his office and runs into his new blonde secretary (unbilled Carol Tevis), with an opposite personality to the previous showgirl type. "What happened to the old one", he asks. "Oh, she got transferred to another apartment", the new one explains and, in the course of their conversation, tells Fletcher that she does not like strawberries. "Do they give you a rash?", he inquires. "Mister Fletcher", she replies, "after all, you ain''t my doctor". At the board meeting, in front of the disbelieving fire chief, he starts a explosive fire to demonstrate that the blazes were started by a man posing as a telephone repairman who rigged a chemical device attached to a company phone which was ready to burst into flame at the sound of a ring. Later, Grayson and Adrienne are sitting in a restaurant as he recounts Fletcher''s demonstration and Adrienne complements his cleverness. She then goes to pay a representative (unbilled Ralph McCullough) for a newspaper''s personal column, to place an ad with the words, "F. – Please don''t use phone any more. – A". At night, a shadowy figure is subsequently seen opening a building''s skylight, pouring liquid down, and resealing the opening. The next morning Fletcher tells Noah that a young lady is coming for breakfast and Noah is unable to tell him that she''s already arrived, "oh, tried to very hard, sir, but you talk too fast". Fletcher and Adrienne have a bantering conversation about wedding bells, because, as he puts it, "it''s high time". Just then, ringing is heard and she says, "there go your wedding bells now". The ticker tape machine prints out news of a fire and Fletcher''s driver takes him and Adrienne to the scene. Approaching one of his contacts, apple seller Molly (unbilled Daisy Belmore), he inquires as to details. Cockney-accented Molly tells him that the previous day, "an odd duck" in a long overcoat came and went. Sifting through the smoldering wreckage, Fletcher uncovers a curious piece of glass which, a specialist (unbilled Edward Earle) tells him, was the "thinnest magnifying lens ever made". Its inventor, Fred Maxwell and his wife, "a very fine chemist" ran the Maxwell Glass Company until it went out of business. Returning to his office, he examines the glass and is confronted by another new secretary, Miss Appleby (unbilled Nora Cecil), a severe middle-aged type with a disapproving outlook, who tells him that "Mister French is planning to give you a new secretary every three or four days". When asked about opening a bottle of wine, she tells him, "I disapprove of the use of stimulants in any manner…", with Fletcher completing in unison with her, "shape or form" and then tells her to take a letter to French, "Esteemed sir, in the future, please don''t reach so far down into the bottom of the barrel". When Miss Appleby asks, "will that be all?", he replies, "I''m optimistic enough to hope that it will be all". Fletcher explains to the board how the new fire was started by a magnifying glass in the skylight and mentions Maxwell, with the board recollecting that they put Maxwell out of business by refusing his request for a loan. When Fletcher mentions to Grayson that someone must have warned the arsonist causing him to change his method, Grayson admits that he mentioned it to Adrienne. Fletcher tells him, "John, when your mouth''s closed, you can''t put your foot in it, remember that." Charles the bellboy (unbilled Mickey Bennett) brings Adrienne the paper which has the personal ad, "A -- The story continues on page nine. -- F." She looks at the brochure of insured businesses at "9." to see "METROPOLITAN LEATHER COMPANY". As fire engines race to a false alarm, a one-legged watchman (unbilled Earle D. Bunn), one of Fletcher''s men, tells him that he''ll be on the lookout. As Fletcher comes out, another of his men, a blind pencil seller, tells him that the alarm was turned in by a woman and "I got her license number". "Are you sure it was a woman?", asks Fletcher. "D''ya think I''m blind?", replies the blind man. Going to Adrienne''s garage, Fletcher compares her license plate and confirms it to have the same number. He goes to her apartment and, after some bantering conversation, asks if she used her car. When she says no, he reminds her about their date tonight and goes home.[4] As Fletcher is dressing for the dinner date, Grayson arrives with results of his investigation which indicate that Maxwell had a million dollar life insurance policy with Interoceanic, but the company refused to pay his daughter Adeline after Maxwell jumped off the dock seven years ago, because, Fletcher interjects, there was no "corpus delicti". On a moment''s decision, he gives Grayson two tickets to The Music Box for the date with Adrienne and asks him to "tell her I''m busy — something sudden". "Are you drunk?", asks Grayson. "Not yet", replies Fletcher. As Grayson picks up Adrienne at her hotel to go to the theater, Fletcher watches them and then tricks the porter (unbilled Joseph De Stefani) into opening the door to Adrienne''s room. Searching her suitcase, he finds a passport with her photograph under the name "Adeline Maxwell", father''s name "Fred J. Maxwell", mother''s name "Frances Maxwell". As he finds further proof in a copy of the originally-seen Interoceanic brochure and secret communication with her father through personal ads, fire engine alarms are heard from the street. As Fletcher arrives on the scene, Sam the one-legged watchman is being carried out on a stretcher and can barely manage to say "hello, boss" to him. A hand is seen drawing an "X" across the brochure''s photo of "Metropolitan Leather Company". Fletcher returns home and tells Noah to bring a drink, "no, I changed my mind, several drinks". When Adrienne and John arrive at Fletcher''s apartment, he is drunk and pleads with her to tell him the truth. When she is unable, he opens the bedroom door to reveal that district attorney Cope (Selmer Jackson) and Police Chief Roberts (Guy Usher) are waiting to arrest her. Grayson defends her, but Fletcher tells him that the pyromaniac is Maxwell''s widow, Frances, who has decided to avenge her husband by setting the fires. The next day, however, Grayson comes in and tells Fletcher that Mrs. Maxwell "died eight months ago — she''s dead — she died before the first fire was ever started — she was buried in France where they lived". He then tells Fletcher "you framed that girl" and continues, "you''d crucify your best friend to solve a case". As Grayson walks out, Fletcher calls Travis Detective Agency "to shadow John Grayson". The following morning, Fletcher goes to Cope''s office and tells him that he framed Adrienne and that she "knows nothing about it". Cope refuses and replies that "everybody knows you''re stuck on this girl", but she''s being held in the psychopathic ward until the trial. Fletcher has an expert (unbilled George McKay) show him the psycho ward layout, then goes out wearing an incongruous outfit and says to Officer Mulcahy (unbilled Dell Henderson), "Can you tell me where I can find a policeman?" and continues, "A woman without an umbrella… across the street… there she was… Fifth Avenue… streetcar… John pulled a gun… and shot the baby… no ambulance around when he arrived…" and when Mulcahy asks, "What do you mean?", continues, "Why, you dumb flatfoot, woman without an umbrella… Johnson Troy shooting fast… forty-fifth street… cooled off fast… pulled out a gun, hit the pillow, shot the baby, no ambulance around when the elephant got there…", then punches Mulcahy, causing himself to be committed into the man''s psycho ward which adjoins the women''s ward where Adrienne is held under the watchful eye of a matron (unbilled Betty Farrington). Intending to free her, Adrienne''s father (unbilled Harold Howard) also has himself committed under the name "John Harmon" and, during yard exercise period, starts a fire in the ward''s paint shop. As the blaze rages, Fletcher chases him to the roof where Maxwell slips and falls to his death. Blackened with soot, Fletcher is treated for burns on his arms, as DA Cope and Chief Roberts explain that Maxwell confessed before dying. Grayson also arrives and everyone offers explanatory details.[5] Some time later, in Fletcher''s apartment, Adrienne, accompanied by Grayson, asks Fletcher where "you''re going on this extended vacation".[6] Fletcher says "Rome" to confirm that it was Nero "who set fire to Rome — so I''m going to poke around in the ashes". He wishes John and Adrienne well and makes his "grand exit". As the elevator door closes, Adrienne says, "down please" and it opens again. She tells him that she is going to Rome because "I have a theory of my own". He asks, "Do you think you''ll find it… in the ashes?" and she answers, "I think I will".[7]'
'drama, romance','Laura Bayles has been a devoted educator for 38 years. Over that time she has risen to become the principal of Avondale High School. When a local petty gambler, "Click" Dade, begins to prey on her students, she takes a leading position in an attempt to force the gambling location to close down. Dade had been one of her former pupils. Her efforts are opposed by two local politicians, Holland and Joseph Killaine. Holland is a small time political boss, while Killaine is the superintendent of schools. So Bayles decides to fight fire with fire. With a stake of $250, and a pair of Dade''s own loaded dice, she wins enough money to open a club to compete with Dade''s, taking away his business. However, after an incident in which Killaine''s daughter, Gerry, causes a fight at Bayles'' club, causing the club''s closure. Killaine then presses his advantage, demanding that Bayles also resign as principal, which will make her ineligible for a pension, being two years short of retirement. Upon hearing of her fate, Gerry goes to Bayles to apologize for her actions, and their end result. An apology which Bayles accepts. Meanwhile, Dade has contacted another one of Bayles'' former pupils, Gavin Gordon, who has risen to become President of the United States. Gordon is on a tour of the country and is in the area of his old hometown. After Dade also apologizes to Bayles, the President arrives at the school and delivers a sentimental speech extolling the virtues of the education profession, motherhood, and Mrs. Bayles. Her job is saved.'
'drama','Before the First World War, Sir Everard Dominey, a drunken upper-class Englishman, encounters an old acquaintance the sinister German arms dealer Baron Leopold von Ragostein in Africa. The two men are identical, and von Ragostein plans to kill his doppelganger and take his place in British high society where he will be able to further his arms business and spy on Britain for the German Empire. He arranges the murder with his various associates. When "Dominey" returns to London shortly afterwards, he encounters the German aristocrat Stephanie Elderstrom who is certain she recognises him as her former lover, von Ragostein. von Ragostein''s associates attempt to buy her off but she remains convinced something untoward is going on. When he reaches Donimey Hall, Dominey''s wife is equally certain that it is her genuine husband returning from Africa at long-last. Gradually, doubts begin to emerge whether it is the real Dominey who has come home.'
'comedy, romance','Brought up in poverty, hotel manicurist Regi Allen wants to marry a rich husband. Her new client, wheelchair-using hotel guest Allen Macklyn is immediately attracted to her and becomes her confidant. Despite his obvious wealth, Regi does not view him as a potential husband, and has no qualms about telling him about her goal in life. Exiting his penthouse suite, she encounters a man playing hop-scotch in the hallway, and declines his invitation to join him. He makes an appointment for a manicure as Theodore Drew III, scion of a socially prominent family. Unaware that the Drews were bankrupted by the Great Depression, she accepts his invitation to dinner. They have a good time, but Ted drinks too much and tells Regi that he is engaged to Vivian Snowden, heiress to a pineapple fortune. When Regi is unable to wake him from his drunken slumber, she lets him sleep on her sofa. He explains to her that he was supposed to sail to Bermuda last night (a trip paid for by his future father-in-law) and that he has nowhere to stay and no money. Regi reluctantly lets him live in her apartment until his boat returns from Bermuda, at which time he can return to sponging off of Vivian. Ted and Regi confess to each other that they intend to marry for money. Ted and Regi play fun pranks on each other. In the first one, Ted frightens away Regi''s date by pretending to be her abusive husband. Later, in order to convince Vivian that he is in Bermuda, Ted persuades Regi to telephone Vivian while posing as a Bermuda telephone operator. When Regi repeatedly interrupts in a nasally voice, Ted hangs up to avoid laughing in his fiancee''s hearing. However, this backfires, as Vivian discovers that the call came from New York when she tries to reconnect. She hires private investigators to find out what is going on. In the course of their stay together, Ted and Regi fall in love. On their last night before the boat returns, they admit their mutual love, but Regi ends the relationship, insisting that Ted would resent having given up his chance to be wealthy if he were to marry her. Early the next morning, Ted leaves without saying goodbye. Vivian has a nasty confrontation with Regi at the hotel. After Regi leaves and Ted shows up, Vivian makes it clear that she knows what happened, but is still willing to go through with the marriage. Ted, however, asks to be released from their engagement. Meanwhile, Regi goes to her regular appointment in Allen''s suite, but breaks down in tears. Allen had intended to propose to her, but he secretly puts away his engagement ring after she confesses she has fallen in love despite herself. When Ted finds her there, she agrees to marry him. On a bus, Regi and Ted discuss what they should do first: eat lunch, get married, or find a job for Ted. They toss a coin to decide; Ted jokingly says he will get a job if it lands on its side. Sure enough, it does when it gets wedged in a manhole cover.'
'biopic','The life and loves of composer Stephen Foster, from his early success through his decline, degradation, and death from (assumed) alcoholism.'
'drama','Dr. Holden (Ralph Bellamy) is "The Healer" (the original title) in this 1930s morally uplifting pot-boiler. He is a doctor that has come home to a warm springs to try to heal children from the unnamed crippling disease (polio). He runs a destitute camp for these children, assisted by Evelyn Allen (Karen Morley) who looks upon the Doc as a great man. Jimmy (Mickey Rooney) is a paraplegic kid whom the Doc promises to cure. This little triangle is interrupted by a rich girl Joan Bradshaw (Judith Allen) who cons the good Doc into building a sanitorium for the wealthy with her father''s money. Doc is momentarily swayed, but comes to his senses just as a forest fire threatens his original cabins around the warm spring. His treatment of Jimmy pays off as Jimmy rides a bicycle to save the day. Doc realizes that his true love is Evelyn, not the self-interested Joan.'
'comedy','A racketeer known as "Sunshine Joe" specializes in ticket scalping. His gang of colorfully nicknamed thugs includes Liverlips, Sam the Gonoph and Bennie South Street, as well as "Georgie the Chaser," who was dubbed that way because of his penchant for chasing after women. On a train, Georgie happens upon Clarice Van Cleve, an heiress who loves to fall in love, particularly with men in uniform. This has created many a headache for her father, who already has seen Clarice elope three times with military types, each tryst ending badly. Mr. Van Cleve diverts his daughter to a New Jersey health resort, where he introduces her to his friend Mr. Wilmot and handsome son Hector, in the hope that Clarice and Hector will hit it off. Georgie the gigolo still has Clarice''s eye, however, pretending to be a combat pilot. But when Clarice turns up and begins acting like a homemaker, driving him crazy, Georgie, learning she''s been disinherited by her dad, leaves by claiming he''s needed by "the King" to fly a mission. Sunshine Joe runs off with money earned from scalped tickets to the Harvard-Yale college football game. It so happens Hector is a member of the Yale team, so all of Joe''s goons go to New Haven, Connecticut for the game and place bets. Shocked to find Hector is a benchwarmer, they pull a gun on the coach, demanding Hector be permitted to play. He kicks a field goal to win the game, then ends up, a man in another kind of uniform, in the arms of Clarice.'
'comedy','A publisher bets an author that he won''t be able to write a romantic adventure novel while on a walking trip from New York to San Francisco.'
'western','A ranch foreman tries to start a range war by playing two cattlemen against each other whilst helping a gang rustle their cattle. Each of the cattlemen blames the other for stealing their cattle. Hop-Along Cassidy, played by William Boyd, having been shot in an earlier gunfight, (which results in his trademark hop), uses an altered cowhide brand to discover the real rustlers. The cattlemen join forces with Hop-Along to bring the rustlers to justice.'
'comedy','Belle McGill is unaware of husband Jimmy''s gambling problem. First he loses $100 at the racetrack and vows never to place another wager. Then he persuades future son-in-law Ben to bet on a sure thing, Leadpipe, but gets a tip on another horse just before the race, bets Ben''s money on that instead, then watches Leadpipe win. In danger of losing his business, if not his family, Jimmy delays paying off Ben, who excitedly believes his horse was the winner. Unbenknowst to all, Belle has been making bets of her own. When a horse called Honey Girl comes along, Belle and Jimmy risk everything they have, and they come out winners.'
'comedy, musical','Annette Monard Street (Lily Pons) is an aspiring singer, who falls in love with and marries Jonathan Street (Henry Fonda), a struggling young composer. Jonathan pushes her into a singing career, and she soon becomes a star. Meanwhile, Jonathan is unable to sell his music, and he finds himself jealous of his wife''s success. Concerned about their relationship, Annette uses her influence to get Jonathan''s work turned into a musical comedy. Once she achieves this, she then retires from public life in order to raise a family.'
'drama','In London, Stella Parish (Kay Francis) has her greatest stage triumph in a play produced and directed by Stephen Norman (Paul Lukas). However, her happiness is short-lived. She finds a man from her past in her dressing room. Determined not to submit to blackmail, she books passage back to America on an ocean liner, traveling in disguise with her young daughter Gloria (Sybil Jason) and her best friend and confidante Nana (Jessie Ralph). Hotshot newspaper reporter Keith Lockridge (Ian Hunter) tracks them down and befriends the trio on the sea voyage. Stella hopes to lose herself among the teeming millions of New York City, but Keith "accidentally" runs into them and renews their acquaintance. As weeks pass, Stella falls in love with him. Meanwhile, Keith investigates and finds out that Stella had been an actress. When her alcoholic, jealous husband found her innocently meeting her co-star in his apartment, he shot and killed the man. Then, he maliciously implicated her in the crime. Their daughter was born in prison. When Stella was released, she set about to bury her past for Gloria''s sake. Finally, Stella tells Keith that she loves him and recounts her entire history. However, Keith had already wired the story to his editor a few hours before. His frantic efforts to suppress the article are too late; his newspaper has already published it. When Stella is besieged by reporters, she decides to milk the situation for money she needs to take care of her child. She sends Gloria and Nana away, out of the public eye. Then, she works with a promoter to make well-paid appearances to take advantage of the scandal. Eventually, the public tires of her and she is reduced to working in vaudeville. At Keith''s secret insistence, Stephen Norman offers her the starring role in his play, which he had shut down after its one performance. She is reluctant to return to London, but cannot refuse the money. Public reaction is at first hostile, but Keith works hard writing articles to sway public opinion. On opening night, Stella refuses to go on, dreading her reception, but Keith shows up backstage and points out at least two in the audience who believe in her, Gloria and Nana.'
'comedy drama','Kay Bentley (Joan Crawford), a bored socialite seeks a more fulfilling life and goes on a Greek holiday. While on vacation, Kay falls for Terry O''Neill (Brian Aherne), an archaeologist who challenges Kay''s beliefs, yet, also falls for her enough to follow her home. He feels awkward in Kay''s flighty, social circles, yet they become engaged to marry. As Kay and Terry continue to quarrel over their differing lifestyles. Kay and Terry reach a compromise and do marry in the end.'
'romantic comedy','Jim Buchanan (Marshall), wealthy president of Buchanan Motor Company, is engaged to Evelyn Fletcher (Inescort), a henpecking aristocrat who is interested in Jim for his money. When Jim''s fellow executives reject his plan to introduce a new automobile design, he decides to take a vacation. Declaring himself "sick and tired of everything", Jim goes for a walk in the park, where he meets a young woman named Joan Hawthorne (Arthur). Joan is having trouble finding a job and has just been evicted from her apartment. Assuming he is also a job hunter, she asks Jim to pose as her husband so they can apply for a combined job opening for a butler and a cook. Without revealing his true identity, he agrees. "Mr. and Mrs. Burns" are soon hired by Michael Rossini (Carrillo). She is a good cook; he improves his skills by sneaking away at night and taking lessons from his own butler. He also goes to his office and takes some of his automobile sketches to show to Joan. Impressed by his designs, on their day off she shows them to an executive with one of Buchanan''s competitors, but he recognizes Buchanan''s style, leading to her arrest for theft. Having fallen in love with Jim, she refuses to help the police find him. Meanwhile, Jim has decided to tell Joan who he is. When she misses a lunch date while in jail, he writes her a letter, abandons his butler position, and returns to Evelyn and his life as a businessman. Rossini, who has just organized a bootlegging gang, learns of Jim''s trip to the office from his assistant, Flash (Stander), who is suspicious of Jim and has been tailing him. Wanting Joan for himself, he has her bailed out and tells her the truth about Jim. She reacts by raging against Jim, so Rossini promptly orders his henchmen to kill Jim at his wedding. To ingratiate himself with Joan, he tells her about this, but she declares that she loves Jim after all and begs Rossini to spare his life. Rossini''s men abduct Jim from his own wedding as he is about to take his vows, but Rossini arrives before they leave. He and his men take Jim home at gunpoint and fetch a justice of the peace to marry Jim and Joan. Joan refuses and locks herself in her room, but Jim embraces the plan. Since Rossini''s men were seen kidnapping him, he blackmails the gang into persuading her to change her mind. Outside Joan''s room, Rossini pretends to argue with Jim, Flash fires his gun in the air, and Jim collapses onto the floor, pretending to be hit. The deception works: Joan opens the door and rushes to his side.'
'musical, comedy','Lawrence (Pat O''Brien), critic and full-time boozer comes to the cabaret In Caliente in Mexico, to distance from Clara (Glenda Farrell), a woman who wishes to marry him. Lawrence falls in love with the beautiful Mexican dancer Rita Gómez (Dolores del Río), forgetting that he once wrote a scathing review of her.'
'drama','In Dublin in 1922, Gypo Nolan (Victor McLaglen) has been kicked out of the outlaw Irish Republican Army (IRA) for not executing a Black and Tan who killed an IRA man. He becomes angry when he sees his streetwalker girlfriend Katie Madden (Margot Grahame) trying to pick up a customer. After he throws the man into the street, Katie laments that she does not have £10 for passage to America to start afresh. Gypo later runs into his friend and IRA comrade Frankie McPhillip (Wallace Ford), a fugitive with a £20 bounty on his head. Frankie, tired of hiding for six months, is on his way home to visit his mother (Una O''Connor) and sister Mary (Heather Angel) under cover of the foggy night. The slow-witted Gypo decides to turn informer for the £20 reward, enough for passage to America for the both of them. The Black and Tans find Frankie at his house, and Frankie is killed in the ensuing gunfight. The British contemptuously give Gypo his blood money and let him go. Gypo subsequently buys a bottle of whiskey and tells Katie that he obtained money by beating up an American sailor. He goes to Frankie''s wake, and acts suspiciously when coins fall out of his pocket. The men there tell him that they do not suspect Gypo of informing, but he then meets with several of his former IRA comrades, who wonder who informed on Frankie. Gypo claims it was a man named Mulligan (Donald Meek). Though Gypo is drunk and talking nonsense, the others begin to suspect him but do not have enough evidence as yet. Gypo leaves and gives out £1 notes to a blind man (D''Arcy Corrigan) and some bar patrons, but people wonder why he had such a sudden influx of cash. Meanwhile, Mary tells the IRA that the only person Frankie talked to that day was Gypo, and the men decide to hold an inquest into the death. Gypo goes to an upper-class party to look for Katie, but gets drunk and buys rounds of drinks. Gypo is then taken away by his former IRA comrades when they figure out it was he. He is taken to a kangaroo court, where Mulligan is questioned and is accused once again by Gypo. However, the comrades do not believe Gypo, and give him a detailed accounting of where he spent his entire £20 reward. Gypo then confesses to ratting out Frankie. Gypo is locked up, but before he can be executed he escapes through a hole in the ceiling. He runs to Katie''s apartment, where he tells her that he informed on Frankie. Katie goes to see the commissioner who presided over the trial, Dan Gallagher (Preston Foster), to beg him to leave Gypo alone. The rigid Gallagher says he cannot do anything, and Gypo might turn in the entire organization to the police if he is allowed to live. However, other IRA members, having overheard Katie, go to her apartment and shoot Gypo, much to Katie''s horror as she hears the shots. Gypo wanders into a church where Frankie''s mother is praying and begs forgiveness as he confesses to her. She does forgive him, telling him that he did not know what he was doing, and the absolved Gypo dies content on the floor of the church after calling out to Frankie with joy.'
'comedy','In Manhattan''s lower east side, police officer Pat O''Hara (Pat O''Brien) wants his boxing promoter brother Danny (James Cagney) to acquire a more dependable job in order to support their mother after Pat marries his girlfriend Lucille Jackson (Olivia de Havilland). When Lucille meets charismatic Danny, she promptly falls for him, which complicates matters.'
'drama','Wealthy and charitable Mary Herries (Aline MacMahon) is tricked by aspiring artist Henry Abbott (Basil Rathbone) into letting him and ill wife Ada (Justine Chase) stay in her stately home. When he invites friends Mr. and Mrs. Edwards (Dudley Digges and Eily Malyon) to pay a visit, they overstay their welcome as well. Days turn into weeks, making Mary and housemaid Rose (Nola Luxford) increasingly anxious for everyone to leave. It turns out to be a plot masterminded by the silky and sinister Abbott to steal everything Mary owns. He masquerades as a relative and they as her butler and maid, holding Mary and Rose captive in their rooms. Outsiders are told that Mary has gone on holiday to America and won''t return for a long time. The plot thickens as Rose is killed. The suspicions of Mary''s business adviser, Foster (Donald Meek), are confirmed when no record of Mary applying for a passport can be found. The police arrive just in time to save her and place Abbott under arrest.'
'comedy','Don Phelan, the ace newsreel reporter, falls in love with Wilma Howell, the daughter of the owner of another newsreel company that is a bitter rival of the one Don works for. The rivalry, with cameramen jostling each other out of the way, acts of sabotage, and reporters fighting to get the ''scoop'', does not bode well for the romance.'
'comedy','In New York City, Dr. Phillip Boyer admires an antique clock at the premises of antique dealer Albert J. Sayre, who has apparently missed his appointment with him. Sayre is however, present and covertly watching Boyer. Deciding to buy and with Mrs. Sayre present, Boyer arranges with salesman Arthur Pennyward for the clock to be delivered that afternoon "about 4.30 or a little after." When Boyer departs, Sayre accuses his wife of a romantic interest in him and obliquely threatens her. Sayre telephones his attorney Jerome T. Shelby who dismisses his suspicions about Mrs. Sayre and the "4.30 or a little after" being a coded signal for an illicit rendezvous, and asks him to bring his latest will to his office for signing. About 5.30pm, Mrs. Sayre meets Dr. Boyer at a restaurant. Also present at the restaurant are Private Investigator Oliver Keith and his "girl friday" Ella Carey. When Boyer departs, Mrs. Sayre approaches Keith, asking for his help in finding out why a man has been watching the Sayre house and the reason for her husband''s strange behavior. To reassure her, Keith escorts her home and together they find an unlocked front door, salesman Pennyward absent, and the dead body of Sayre in his office. Soon after, Pennyward returns. He states that he left the premises about 4pm, delivering the clock to Dr. Boyer''s home about 5.30 and setting the time correctly to 5.35. Police are called and establish time of death at "about 5 o''clock." Mrs. Sayre says she went to her hairdressing salon at around 4pm. Questioning is interrupted by the arrival of Dr. Boyer who is returning the clock because it''s not the one he ordered. Questioning is again interrupted by the arrival of Sayre''s daughter Alice who accuses Mrs. Sayre, her stepmother, of being in love with Dr. Boyer and murdering her father for inheritance money. Dr. Boyer strongly denies any romantic interest in Mrs. Sayre. Fingerprints provide a lead to rival antique dealer F.W. Dyker but he cannot be found. Questioning reveals that Pennyward and Alice married the previous day and when they told her father he fired Pennyward and told them he would disinherit her, a strong motive for murdering him before any change in the will. Boyer''s alibi of being at his medical practice till 5.30 is found to be false as he left about 3.30. Dyker, Pennyward and Alice, Boyer, and Mrs. Sayre are now all under suspicion. Dyker turns up at Keith''s office in response to a fake art collection ad designed to lure him there, and is arrested by Inspector Trainey. In questioning, Pennyward reveals to Keith that Sayre ran a profitable enterprise selling fake antiques through Dyker, but they argued over payments. Mrs. Sayre admits that neither she nor Boyer has told the entire truth as they were at the restaurant not long after the time of the murder, but their relationship was platonic. She genuinely loved her husband but he was a very difficult man. The family assembles for the reading of the will by attorney Shelby. The estate is shared equally between Sayre''s wife and daughter, as Sayre was murdered before signing the new will. Strangely, $100,000 in bonds which Alice knows should be hers upon marriage are not mentioned in the will. Shelby suggests the bonds may be in Sayre''s personal effects in the safe but when it''s opened by Mrs. Sayre, who alone knows the combination, the cash box is found to be empty. Alice accuses her of theft. Arriving at Boyer''s medical premises to interview him, Keith, Ella, and Inspector Trainey are told his whereabouts are not known. In a side room they discover the man who''s been seen watching the Sayre home. Named Quigley, he''s been doped with truth serum. Recovering, he reveals he was paid by Sayre to follow Mrs. Sayre and that she and Boyer were together much earlier on the afternoon of the murder than they had admitted. Later that evening, Dr. Boyer is found murdered in his car. Keith makes use of a planned meeting between Pennyward and his wife and attorney Shelby to hold a meeting of his own, with Mrs. Sayre, Dyker, Quigley, Inspector Trainey, and Ella also present. He disposes of each suspect''s motive and alibi. Quigley is found to have not only followed Mrs. Sayre on behalf of Sayre but falsely led him to believe that she was being unfaithful, and then blackmailed him over it. Several of the missing bonds are found in Pennyward''s satchel and are identified by Shelby as exactly the same type as the missing bonds, despite his remark on the day of the reading of the will that he knew nothing of their type or denomination. Caught in a lie, Shelby is accused by Keith of murdering Sayre when he visited Sayre''s home for the signing of the will, taking the $100,000 of bonds from the open safe, and planting some on Pennyward to implicate him. Shelby pulls a gun and fires it but is overpowered, with the bullet expected to provide ballistics evidence that he killed Boyer too. Quigley is arrested for blackmailing both Sayre and Boyer, which had led Boyer to dope him and find out that while watching the Sayre house, Quigley had spotted Shelby entering and probably killing Sayre. Boyer had then confronted Shelby, but was killed by him. Quigley had been too afraid to mention any of this as he was guilty of blackmail and feared Shelby would kill him too. Alice and her stepmother reconcile, Pennyward and Alice go off on their honeymoon, Dyker goes free but with his reputation even more tarnished.'
'drama, adventure','In the time of Jesus Christ, blacksmith Marcus (Preston Foster) is content with his life, beautiful wife Julia (Gloria Shea) and six-month-old son. However, when Julia and their child are run down by a chariot in the streets of Pompeii, Marcus spends the little money he has to pay for a doctor and medicine. Needing more, in desperation, he becomes a gladiator. He wins his fight, but in vain; his wife and child die. Blaming his poverty, he becomes an embittered professional gladiator and grows wealthier with each victory. In one match, he kills his opponent, only to discover he has orphaned a young boy named Flavius (David Holt). Full of remorse, he adopts the boy and purchases a slave, Leaster (Wyrley Birch), to tutor him. However, the added responsibility makes him too cautious in the arena, and he is defeated and injured. The injury ends his second career. When Cleon (William V. Mong), a slave dealer, offers him a job, Marcus is at first contemptuous, but eventually takes it. He raids an African village for slaves, where a father battles Marcus'' raiders until his young son''s life is threatened and he is forced to surrender. Marcus identifies with the father''s grief at being unable to protect his son. He stops slaving and turns to trading instead. One day, Marcus rescues a fortune teller, who foretells that Flavius will be saved by the greatest man in Judea. Marcus and Flavius travel to Jerusalem to see the man that Marcus thinks fits that description: Pontius Pilate (Basil Rathbone), the Roman governor. At an inn along the way, a man tells him that the greatest man is staying in the stable (similar to the one in which he was born), but Marcus does not believe him. On learning that Marcus was once a great gladiator, Pilate employs him secretly to lead a band of cutthroats to raid the chief of the Ammonites, who has been causing him problems. Marcus comes away with many fine horses and much treasure, but when he goes to see his son, he finds that Flavius has been thrown from a horse and is near death. With no doctors around, Marcus desperately takes the boy to a noted healer and begs for his help. The healer is Jesus, who saves Flavius''s life. When Marcus later reports back to Pilate with his share of the treasure, Pilate has sentenced Christ to death. The remorseful (as depicted in this film) Pilate is disheartened with guilt over his condemnation of an innocent man. Marcus leaves the city quickly, but as his party is departing, one of the apostles recognizes him and begs him to rescue Jesus, carrying his cross through the streets, but Marcus refuses. As Marcus and Flavius leave Jerusalem, they see three crosses on Calvary behind them. Years pass. Marcus has grown wealthy as the head of the arena in Pompeii. Flavius (played as an adult by John Wood) is now a young man. Flavious is haunted by the memory of the man who healed him, though his recollections are so vague that his father easily dismisses them as nonsense. One day, Marcus welcomes Pontius Pilate as a guest to his lavish home. When Flavius mentions his early childhood memories of a man speaking about love and compassion, Marcus assures him, as he has always insisted, that there was no such person. Pilate answers, "Don''t lie to him, Marcus. There was such a man." Flavius asks, "What happened to him?", and the still-remorseful Pilate answers, "I crucified him." It is then that the memory of the three "crosses on the hill" comes flooding back to Flavius. Unbeknownst to Marcus, Flavius has been secretly helping slaves escape from certain death in his father''s arena. However, he is arrested with a group of the runaways and sentenced to die. When he discovers what has happened, Marcus tries to free Flavius, but in vain. Flavius is herded into the arena with the others, but as the fighting begins, Mount Vesuvius erupts. As Marcus wanders stunned through the streets with the panic-stricken populace, he sees the jailer who refused to release Flavius trying to free his own son from the rubble. The dying man begs Marcus for mercy for his son. Marcus angrily refuses, but then remembers begging Jesus for mercy for Flavius and rescues the boy. Marcus sees his faithful servant Burbix (Alan Hale) leading a group of slaves carrying his treasure on litters. He orders them to use the litters to rescue the injured instead. As they get to a ship, Marcus sees that one of those saved is Flavius and offers a prayer of thanksgiving. The prefect and his men try to get through a gate to take the ship for themselves. Marcus holds the gate shut, giving the boat enough time to get away at the cost of his life. He has a vision of Christ reaching out to him just before he dies.'
'drama, war','In Kurdistan during World War I, Michael Andrews (Cary Grant) is a British officer captured by Kurds, imprisoned, and awaiting execution. The local Turkish commander (Claude Raines) helps Andrews escape and confides that he is a British intelligence officer (initially "Smith," later named as John Stevenson) in disguise. The two set out to warn friendly villagers of a pending Kurdish attack. After a difficult river crossing, and after Andrews flirts with a married tribal woman, Stevenson returns to espionage. Andrews, who has hurt his leg, goes to Cairo for medical treatment. There, Andrews falls in love with his nurse, Rosemary Haydon (Gertrude Michael), who ultimately refuses Andrews by saying she''s secretly married to an unnamed man she''d known briefly a few years before. Andrews transfers to the Sudan, where his patrol takes over a fort after finding that its troops had been massacred. Meanwhile Stevenson goes back to Haydon—revealed as his wife—who confesses her love for Andrews. Stevenson requests a transfer to the Sudan to confront Andrews. Shortly after Stevenson reaches the fort, thousands of African tribesman attack it. Realizing that a handful of men can''t hold the fort, Andrews, Stevenson, and their troops set out over sand dunes and eventually enter the jungle with the tribesmen in hot pursuit. British troops appear out of nowhere, deus ex machina, defeat the tribesmen, and rescue Andrews. Stevenson, mortally wounded in the battle, dies a hero''s death, presumably leaving Andrews free to marry widow Haydon.'
'crime','An FBI agent tracks down a gang leader.'
'drama, science fiction','A doctor who is convinced that the dead can be brought back to life gets the chance to prove his theory on a dog that has recently died.'
'comedy','Mortimer Thompson (Edward Everett Horton) and Steve Craig (Robert Armstrong) are a pair of sidewalk confidence men working Broadway one step ahead of the police selling phony watches. Broke, they arrange to have dinner with Gibbs, an old friend, thinking he will help them with some money. Gibbs and his young daughter Gloria (Sybil Jason) don''t have much money, either, and think that Steve and Mortimer can help them. On top of needing money, Gibbs is in hiding from notorious gangster Kell Norton. After Steve, Mortimer, Gibbs and Gloria finish their dinner, Gibbs is shot and killed by Norton''s men as the group leaves the restaurant. Steve and Mortimer hurry to leave before they too get shot, hastily leaving Gibbs'' daughter Gloria behind. Steve reminds Mortimer that they forgot about Gloria. Despite Mortimer''s protestations, Steve convinces him to go back for the girl. Gloria stays with Steve and Mortimer for a night at their place. Gloria takes Mortimer''s bed, so Mortimer has to sleep in the bathroom. Steve tries to put Gloria in an orphanage but feels bad when she begins to cry. Steve and Mortimer try to care for Gloria with the help of Jean (Glenda Farrell), a hat check girl at their residential hotel. Steve and Mortimer find out that Gloria can sing and dance, so they get her to perform on the street with them. Gloria also helps them sell their fake watches until Jean finds out. Jean expresses her displeasure, but Steve and Mortimer continue using Gloria. Jean has Gloria put in an orphanage because Steve and Mortimer aren''t responsible enough to take care of her. Steve wins a craps game with small-time hoodlum Jack Doré (Jack La Rue) to raise money, but Doré refuses to pay off the gambling debt and Steve threatens to get him. Later Norton kills Doré and passes Steve as he is arriving to ask Doré for his winnings again so he can adopt Gloria. Steve becomes the suspect for the crime. Norton realizes Steve is a witness against him and tries to find him to shut him up. To force Steve out of hiding, he kidnaps Gloria. Steve convinces the gangsters to let Gloria go and take him instead. Just as Norton''s gang is about to kill Steve, the police (tipped off by Mortimer and Jean) arrive at the hideout. His name cleared, Steve marries Jean and they adopt Gloria. Steve, Jean, Gloria, and Mortimer move from the city and open a roadside café.'
'comedy, drama','Shortly after the American Civil War, southern belle Elizabeth Lloyd (Evelyn Venable) marries a northerner, Jack Sherman (John Lodge). Her father Colonel Lloyd (Lionel Barrymore) disowns her in anger and retaliation. Elizabeth and Jack move west where they become parents of a girl they name Lloyd Sherman (Shirley Temple). Six years later, Lloyd Sherman is made an honorary colonel in the Army. Elizabeth returns to the south with little Lloyd and settles in a cottage near Colonel Lloyd’s mansion while her husband Jack remains in the west prospecting for gold. When Colonel Lloyd discovers his daughter living in the neighborhood, he treats her with disdain. Little Lloyd learns of her parents’ past from housekeeper Mom Beck (Hattie McDaniel), and, when she meets her grandfather for the first time, throws mud at him. The two eventually become contentious friends. Elizabeth’s husband returns from the west with a fever. He has lost everything in his prospecting venture, but the family is saved from complete ruin when the Union Pacific Railroad requests right of way across Jack’s western property. Jack''s former prospecting partners have heard of the Railroad’s offer and try to swindle Jack. They resort to holding the Sherman couple hostage until the deed to their valuable property is located. Little Lloyd runs through dark woods for her grandfather but he refuses to help. He changes his mind when little Lloyd says she never wants to see him again. They arrive at the cottage just in time to save Elizabeth and Jack. The film ends with a brief Technicolor sequence featuring a ''pink party'' for little Lloyd, her friends, and her reconciled family.'
'drama','The film opens in the ballroom of the Cary plantation on Virgie’s (Shirley Temple) sixth birthday. A family slave, Uncle Billy (Bill Robinson), dances for her party guests, but the celebration is brought abruptly to an end when a messenger arrives with news of the assault on Fort Sumter and a declaration of war. Virgie’s father (John Boles) is ordered to the Armory with horse and side-arms. He becomes a scout for the Confederate Army, crossing enemy lines to gather information. On these expeditions, he sometimes briefly visits his family at their plantation behind Union lines. One day, Colonel Morrison (Jack Holt), a Union officer, arrives at the Cary plantation looking for Virgie‘s father. Virgie defies him, hitting him with a pebble from her slingshot and singing “Dixie”. After Morrison leaves, Cary arrives to visit his family but quickly departs when slaves warn of approaching Union troops. Led by the brutal Sgt. Dudley (Guinn Williams), the Union troops begin to loot the house. Colonel Morrison returns, puts an end to the plundering, and orders Dudley lashed. With this act, Morrison rises in Virgie’s esteem. One stormy night, battle rages near the plantation. Virgie and her mother are forced to flee with Uncle Billy when their house is burned to the ground. Mrs. Cary (Karen Morley) falls gravely ill but finds refuge in a slave cabin. Her husband crosses enemy lines to be with his wife during her last moments. After his wife’s death, Cary makes plans to take Virgie to his sister in Richmond. When Colonel Morrison learns of the plan, he aids Cary by providing him with a Yankee uniform and a pass. The plan is foiled, and Cary and Morrison are sentenced to death. The two are confined to a makeshift prison where Virgie and Uncle Billy visit them daily. A kindly Union officer urges Uncle Billy to appeal to President Lincoln for a pardon. Short on funds, Uncle Billy and Virgie sing and dance in public spaces and ‘pass the cap’. Once in Washington, they are ushered into Lincoln’s (Frank McGlynn Sr.) office where the President pardons Cary and Morrison after hearing Virgie’s story. The film ends with Virgie happily singing “Polly Wolly Doodle” to her father, Colonel Morrison and a group of soldiers.'
'drama, adventure','On the northwest frontier of India during the British Raj, Scottish Canadian Lieutenant Alan McGregor (Gary Cooper), in charge of newcomers, welcomes two replacements to the 41st Bengal Lancers: Lieutenant John Forsythe (Franchot Tone) and Lieutenant Donald Stone (Richard Cromwell), the son of the unit''s commander, Colonel Tom Stone (Guy Standing). Lieutenant Stone, a "cub" (meaning a newly commissioned officer), volunteered to serve on the Indian frontier in the belief that his father specifically sent for him; while Lieutenant Forsythe, an experienced cavalrymen and something of a teasing character, was sent out as a replacement for an officer who was killed in action. After their formal introduction, Lieutenant Stone realizes his father did not sent for him during a heated argument, a discovery that breaks his heart. In attempt to show impartiality, the colonel treats his son very properly. The Colonel''s military behavior and adherence to protocol is misinterpreted by young Stone, who resents such treatment from the father he has not seen since he was a boy. Lieutenant Barrett, (Colin Tapley) disguised as a native rebel in order to spy on Mohammed Khan (Douglass Dumbrille), reports that Khan is preparing an uprising against the British. He plans to intercept and hijack a military convoy transporting two million rounds of ammunition. When Khan discovers that Colonel Stone knows of his plan, he orders Tania Volkanskaya, a beautiful Russian agent, to seduce and kidnap Lieutenant Stone in an attempt to extract classified information about the ammunition caravan from him. When the colonel refuses to attempt his son''s rescue, McGregor and Forsythe, appalled by the "lack of concern" the colonel has for his own son, leave the camp at night without orders. Disguised as native merchants trying to sell blankets, they successfully get inside Mohammed Khan''s fortress. However, they are recognized by Tania, who met the two men before at a civil event. McGregor and Forsythe are taken prisoner. During a seemingly friendly interrogation, Khan says "We have ways of making men talk," and has the prisoners tortured. Their nails are ripped off and the sensitive skin underneath burned with bamboo slivers. When McGregor and Forsythe, despite the agonizing pain, refuse to speak, Stone cracks and reveals what he knows to end their torture. As a result, the ammunition convoy is captured. After receiving news of the stolen ammunition, Colonel Stone takes the 41st to battle Mohammed Khan. From their cell, the captives see the overmatched Bengal Lancers deploy to assault Khan''s fortress. They manage to escape and blow up the ammunition tower, young Stone redeeming himself by killing Khan with a dagger. With their ammunition gone, their leader dead, and their fortress in ruins as a result of the battle, the remaining rebels surrender. However, McGregor, who was principally responsible for the destruction of the ammunition tower, was killed when the tower exploded. In recognition of their bravery and valor in battle, Lieutenants Forsythe and Stone are awarded the Distinguished Service Order. The late Lieutnant McGregor posthumously receives the Victoria Cross Great Britain''s highest award for military valor, with Colonel Stone pinning the medal to the saddle cloth of McGregor''s horse, as was the custom in the 41st Lancers.'
'drama, romance','One day, Terry Parker, an airplane pilot is in a plane crash that kills his family. He feels guilty for their death and feels like he should have died in the crash as well. Terry continues to get into trouble until his friend, Walter Pritcham, known as Gibraltar for his steady nature, brings him to a party. Terry meets the beautiful Amy Prentiss and they both fall in love. Terry realizes that Amy is Gibraltar''s girl and tries to leave Amy, but Gibraltar reunites the couple wanting Amy to be happy. Amy and Terry get married and Gibraltar gives them a house in the country on Long Island. Terry is unemployed for some time until he get the idea to fly commuters into New York. However, Amy believes that Terry will not act responsibly and leaves him. Gibraltar tries to get Amy to go back to Terry, but she refuses. Terry is in a car crash and Amy and Gibraltar rush to see him. Terry and Amy realize that they do love each other and vow never leave each other ever again.[1]'
'comedy, romance','Colonel Downey, a carnival owner, goes bankrupt and lands in jail. His daughter Gracie Downey decides to travel to New York City to find her sister Violet and ask for financial aid. George goes along with Gracie, and together they find Vi dining with songwriter Larry Deane, unaware that both Vi and Larry don''t have a dollar left between them. Vi and Larry each get a job in Pop Heinrich''s music store, where she turns out to be good at sales by singing songs to customers with Larry''s accompaniment. Vi is able to get her belongings back from the apartment where she was locked out, but gives what''s left of her money to Gracie, then decides to go to work for the carnival. Larry then decides to use his earnings to become one of the carnival''s new owners.'
'drama, horror','Actress Yvonne Orlac (Frances Drake) rests after her final performance at the ''Théâtre des Horreurs'' (styled after the Grand Guignol) in Paris, France. As she listens to her husband Stephen Orlac (Colin Clive) play the piano on the radio, she is greeted by Dr. Gogol (Peter Lorre), who has seen every show featuring Yvonne, and unaware of her marriage, is aghast to learn that she is moving to England with her husband. Gogol leaves the theater heartbroken, buys the wax figure of Yvonne''s character, refers to it as Galatea (from the Greek myth), and arranges that it be delivered to his home the following day. Stephen Orlac is on a train journey from Fontainebleau to Paris, where he sees murderer Rollo the Knife thrower (Edward Brophy), who is on the way to his execution by guillotine. (Gogol later witnesses the execution, along with the American reporter Reagan (Ted Healy)). Orlac''s train crashes later that night, and Yvonne finds her husband with mutilated hands. She takes Stephen to Gogol in an attempt to reconstruct his hands, and Gogol agrees to do so. Gogol uses Rollo''s hands for the transplant, and the operation is a success. The Orlac couple are forced to sell many of their possessions to pay for the surgery, while Stephen finds he is unable to play the piano with his new hands. When a creditor comes to claim the Orlacs'' piano, Stephen throws a fountain pen that barely misses his head. Stephen seeks help from his stepfather, Henry Orlac (Ian Wolfe). Henry denies the request, upset that Stephen did not follow in his line of business as a jeweler. A knife thrown in anger by Stephen misses Henry, but breaks the shop front''s window. Gogol meanwhile asks Yvonne for her love, but she refuses. Stephen goes to Gogol''s home and demands to know about his hands, and why they throw knives. Gogol suggests that Stephen''s problem comes from childhood trauma, but later confirms to his assistant Dr. Wong (Keye Luke) that Stephen''s hands had been Rollo''s. Gogol then suggests to Yvonne that she get away from Stephen, as the shock has affected his mind and she may be in danger. She angrily rejects Gogol, whose obsession grows. Henry Orlac is murdered, and Stephen receives a note that promises that he will learn the truth about his hands if he goes to a specific address that night. There, a man with metallic hands and dark glasses claims to be Rollo, brought back to life by Gogol. Rollo explains that Stephen''s hands were his, and that Stephen used them to murder Henry. He also claims that Gogol transplanted his (Rollo''s) head on to a new body...flashing a leather-and-metal neck brace as "proof!" Stephen returns to Yvonne and explains that his hands are those of Rollo, and that he must turn himself in to the police. A panic-stricken Yvonne goes to Gogol''s home, and finds him completely mad (after he has come home and shed his elaborate disguise). Gogol assumes that his statue has come to life, embraces her, and begins to strangle her. Reagan, Stephen and the police arrive, but are only able to open the observation window. Stephen produces a knife and throws it at Gogol, then finds his way in. Gogol dies as Stephen and Yvonne embrace.'
'drama, romance','The life of spoiled Robert Merrick (Robert Taylor) is saved through the use of a hospital''s only pulmotor, but because the medical device cannot be in two places at once, it results in the death of Dr. Hudson, a selfless, brilliant surgeon and generous philanthropist. Merrick falls in love with Hudson''s widow, Helen (Irene Dunne), though she holds him responsible for her husband''s demise. One day, he insists on driving her home, and makes a pass at her. She gets out, and is struck by another car, losing her sight. Merrick confronts a friend of Helen''s husband, wanting to know why a beautiful young woman would marry a middle-aged man. The doctor''s friend tells him that her husband had a philosophy - to help people, but never let it be known that you are the one helping them. Only then, he believed, could there be true reward in life. Merrick watches over Helen, and visits her during her recuperation, concealing his identity and calling himself Dr. Robert. His true identity is known to Helen''s sister-in-law, Joyce (Betty Furness), who keeps it a secret. When he finds out that she is nearly penniless, Merrick secretly pays for specialists to try to restore her vision. Finally, she travels to Paris, and is told that her eyesight is gone forever. Robert follows her, confesses his true identity, and proposes marriage. She forgives him, but goes away, not wanting to be a burden to him. Years later, Robert has become a brain surgeon. He learns that Helen urgently needs an operation, which he performs. When she awakens, her sight has miraculously returned.'
'comedy','Professor Reginald Q. Jones (Charles Starrett), Associate Professor for Social Economics at Pelton University (founded 1912 A.D.), has a very clear picture of how in the United States economic inequality should be changed: Scene in Class, Professor talks: «Young man, the only thing that is wrong with the money today in this country, is that the wrong people have it. Fortunes are amassed by an incompute millionaires in the attempt to set aristocracy and wealth, instead of achievement. Does this answer your question?» Student answers: «Yes Sir.» Picture shows into the class: A female student with a pencil and notebook. She is writing, while the professor talks. Then the camera shows what she has written and you see it''s a caricature of the Professor, with the words: Professor Jones Full of Importance. He gets $25 a week and he knows all about Money. Professor continues: «Oh, and while we are on the subject of an incompute millionaires, it might be well to consider my plan on limiting the antics of their offspring by establishing a 90% inheritance tax.» The drawing student in the first row laughs loudly. The Professor says to her: «Evidently Miss Corning (Pauline Brooks) you don‘t agree with my idea.» She answers: «I certainly do not» Then he invites her to show him what she has written. Reluctantly she shows him her drawing. Then he asks her what she thinks about the matter. She then says: «there is nothing wrong with the money, it‘s the people. If they weren‘t lazy they would go out and find a job.» He: Does this idea originate from you or your father? She: My fathere thinks the same as me. He: Maybe that‘s wrong with the banking business. Irene Corning tells her father, the rich banker, who complaints with the University Director, and as the University is partly financed by this same banker, Professor Reginald Q. Jones is called to explain. He sticks to his theories and so the University Board decides he is dismissed from classes until he can prove that his theories are applicable in real life. He then finds himself without money in the campus, with a homeless man, Pete (James Burke (actor)), asking him for a dollar. He tells Pete he gave him the day before a dollar. When Pete answers he got it two days before a policeman arrives and wants to arrest Pete. When Professor Jones hears that the street beggars have to be removed from the streets on the order of Mr. Moxey, he pretends that Pete is a friend of his and protects him. He tells the Policeman he was going to borrow two dollars from Pete. He so comes to his first two dollar. As Pete wants back his two bucks note Professor Jones answers he is out of the job and needs himself the money. As he had given to Pete before it was right to get back some of it. So he proposes to be taught panhandling. Pete shows him some tricks, as the ''civil war act'', the system he and his fellow beggars have all over town. Jones goes with Pete, staying at a little Room for Rent called Fritz. Pete and his fellow beggars have a meeting with him trying to find out how to make him work in their racket. But they agree he has not the personality and no talent for it. So he is asked what he is good at. Theory of finance, History of banking, surplus and distribution. The men in the meeting are quite surprised. One says: Too bad. You college men present a very great problem! When he gets a visit for an interview from the World improvement league, those same people through their questions give him the big idea: He will ask the people to make him a public millionaire to show his ideas, through public subscription of 1 dollar each. Larkey a PR-scoundrel (George E. Stone) likes Jones'' idea as he sees how much money he can make. His first move is to go to rich Moxey (newspaper owner), who starts a wide newspaper campaign against Professor Jones. So the first step of publicity is made out of nearly nothing and the public already splits in pro''s and con''s, sending a dollar each to Professor Jones. At first Jones is furious with Larkey. When he explains, that to get the first page he would have had to pay 5 Million dollars and he got it for free, he realizes that it could turn in his favor. As he goes to see the Banker Mr. Corning in presence of his former student, the daughter Corning, only two days of his campaign, he is already in the position to deposit 25.000 $. The Cornings are obviously astonished. He opened a safe deposit box and puts there the 25.000 $ in one dollar bills. The Corning see another chance to break him by calling the postal authorities. Meantime Larkey has organized big banners and a whole campaign with the newspapers. When the authorities come to Jones, he is fortunately able to say he is working as an Organization: The World Improvement League. And he has to say it is a responsible Organization. So Moxey and Corning tell him that he has to appear with his board of directors Friday morning. That he has to put the money in a trust fund until the outcome of the meeting. As Jones tell Pete and Larkey that there is no World Improvement League, that it was only a name he made up at University, Pete doesn''t capitulate and starts an intensive fast training with his fellow beggars to become a fine bunch of public-spirited citizens financiers until Friday. Pete resumes the receipt against depression: When the people have more doe, they have more doe to give away! At the meeting: one, the london delegate tries to steel cigars, the Greek Chancellor talks to a financier telling him about the disastrous food conditions in Greek so that this one is willing to give the Greek some money. And Pete looking everywhere to control his men. As Irene intrudes the meeting, the whole setup is revealed. The Inspector gives Jones 15 days to complete the fund, if not the money has to be redistributed to the public. Jones has the chance to get into a radio transmission, supported by a toothpaste- enterprise: Nervo, how much nerve you can have using Nervo. He should have about 15 Million people audience; so he and his fellows hope to be able to get the rest of the money. But Corning doesn''t pass the cheque about 1000,- $ Nervo sends Jones as advance for expense money to get the boys to Chicago, because he wants to prevent Jones to get his voice to an audience of 15 Million people. His daughter Irene at that point changes side: she tells her dad that what he does is illegal. Corning asserts the public has to be protected from fools as Jones is. He sends back the cheque to Nervo. Irene talks with Jones, Pete and Larkey and she is able to convince Jones to go with her car to Chicago, while Pete and the boys will arrange with the railroad. Larkey reads them a telegram from Nervo telling them, they are expected in Chicago. A street chase starts, during which Irene and "Reggie" get closer. At night resting in the car she asks him what he will do, when he will have the million. He says he will distribute the surplus. On the question if it will change his life, he answers: the trouble in this country is the uncertainty of disposing of the surplus. The manufactures sold part of the goods to the profit. And if the remaining would be bought by the government at the cost of material and labour, there would be no failure. Asked by Jones to repeat what he said, Irine answers: Surplus women and no distribution! In Chicago Jones is able to talks some minutes to the Radio audience thanks to Pete making the show of his life as an epileptic to divert the police. Finally Jones is able to distribute the surplus, as the million is achieved: every citizen who gave one dollar is rewarded by a good worth 3,- $, and the manufacturers received cash pay off their obligations. So he demonstrated what could be done with his theories. Larkey brings new letters from all over the country. People were so satisfied with the articles they got from the Million fund, that they write Jones to do it again. "Bargain of the month club" is going to be the name of the enterprise, and to earn something Irene suggested to take from each dollar 1 penny, that would make 10.000,-$ a month by 1 Million. The men and Pete are distributed all over the United States to run each a branch of the enterprise. And finally Irene has made of Professor Jones a rich man, as her father. And herself, just a wife!'
'drama','Steel mill foreman Chris Bennett is pleased when he is chosen to be the new boss of Harrison Balding''s entire business over Ed Tanahill, who is the owner''s cousin. Tanahill and secretary Vida conspire to sabotage Chris''s progress at the mill reputation with the men. The hard-working and popular Chris now neglects the mill and incurs the wrath of his workers while wife Bessie rues the absence of their old friends. He finally comes to his senses and returns to his old position as foreman before it''s too late.'
'comedy','Ambrose Wolfinger works as a "memory expert" for a manufacturing company''s president; he keeps files of details about all the people President Malloy (Oscar Apfel) meets with, so that Malloy will never be embarrassed about not remembering things when meeting with them. Ambrose supports himself, his shrewish wife Leona (Kathleen Howard), his loving daughter Hope (from a previous marriage; played by Mary Brian), his freeloading brother-in-law Claude (Grady Sutton), and his abusive mother-in-law Cordelia (Vera Lewis). At the start of the film, two burglars, played by Tammany Young and Walter Brennan, break into Ambrose''s cellar late at night, get drunk on his homemade applejack, and start singing "On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away"; Ambrose is forced to handle the situation, and he winds up being arrested for distilling liquor without a license. This is done on the order of the night court judge hearing the case. He forgets about dealing with the burglars. While on the way to the night court Ambrose talks about the wrestling match scheduled for that day and demonstrates an "unbreakable" hold on the neighborhood watch policeman who arrested the burglars. The policeman throws him into the street. When he asks Ambrose if he hurt him, Ambrose asks him how someone could be hurt by being dropped on his head. The next day, Ambrose falsely tells Malloy that Cordelia had died from drinking poisoned liquor, and asks for the afternoon off to attend the funeral; in fact, he wants to go to see the big wrestling match. Malloy, touched by Ambrose''s tale, lets him go for the day, and Ambrose''s immediate supervisor, Mr. Peabody (Lucien Littlefield), tells all the other employees the tragic news so they can pay their respects to the family. In fact, Ambrose does not explicitly say that his mother-in-law died from poisoned liquor. Rather, when his employer asks him how she died, he begins to improvise a story. He says she was taken with a "chill" and that he poured her a drink. Then Malloy interrupts him and, assuming it was the liquor that killed her, says excitedly that he has read in the paper recently of many instances of people dying from poisoned liquor. Ambrose is too timid to contradict him. Throughout that day, Ambrose has one problem after another: He has encounters with ticket-writing policemen and cars that are parked too close to his; he finds himself chasing a tire along railroad tracks and narrowly avoids getting hit by an electric interurban car; and while trying to get into the wrestling arena (Claude had stolen his ticket earlier), he gets knocked down by a wrestler who is thrown out of the building by his opponent. Later that day, Ambrose comes home to find that Cordelia and Leona are furious about seeing Cordelia''s obituary in the newspaper and receiving a huge amount of flowers, sympathy cards, and funeral wreaths. Claude sees Ambrose sprawled on the sidewalk after he is knocked over by a wrestler. Ambrose''s secretary, who had been in the wrestling match audience (she said her mother is a friend of the contender, a Turk named Hookalaka Meshobbab) is bent over him expressing her concern over his injury. When Claude returns home ahead of Ambrose, he falsely tell his mother and his sister that he saw Ambrose and the secretary "drunk in the gutter". Furthermore, Peabody calls to say that Ambrose is fired because of his deception. Ambrose, who has been meek and mild through the entire film, finally has had enough, and in a rare moment of overt violence for Fields'' characters, knocks Claude unconscious, and frightens his wife and mother-in-law into hiding. The angry Ambrose wants to beat them also ("I''ll knock ''em for a row of lib-labs"), but soon he and his daughter leave the house to go live elsewhere. Later, Malloy demands that Peabody rehire Ambrose because no one else can figure out Wolfinger''s filing system; Hope answers the telephone, and says (falsely) that Ambrose has a better offer from another company. After some bargaining, Ambrose is rehired with a huge raise in pay and four weeks'' vacation. Meanwhile, Leona realizes that she still loves Ambrose, scolds Claude for his laziness, and stands up to her disagreeable mother. The film ends with Ambrose taking the family for a ride in his new car. Hope and Leona ride inside the car with him, while Claude and Cordelia ride in the rumble seat during a heavy rain.'
'comedy','In Monte Carlo, Paul Gaillard, an impoverished Russian exiled aristocrat, has a fabulous run of luck, breaking the bank at the baccarat table. His winnings, ten million francs, are so vast he needs a suitcase (which he brought with him) to carry away the banknotes. The management desperately tries to entice him to stay, strewing various signs of good luck (four-leaf clovers, a horseshoe, even a hunchback) in his path, to no avail. Even worse from their viewpoint, Paul is quoted in the newspapers advising people to stay away from Monte Carlo. On the train, Paul encounters the beautiful Helen Berkeley when they share a table in the dining car. He overhears her and her male companion talking about Switzerland. In Paris, he goes to the Cafe Russe, where he shares the money with the staff. They scrimped and saved for ten years to build up their initial stake. The next day, Paul and his servant Ivan take the train to Interlaken, Switzerland. By chance, Helen is mistakenly placed in Paul''s compartment. He takes the opportunity to try to charm her, but is rebuffed. He is delighted, however, to learn that the man with her is her brother Bertrand. Paul pursues her with great persistence, and it finally pays off. They spend time together. Then Helen confides that she is unhappy because she is going to marry a 63-year-old for money, not for herself, but for her brother, who needs 5 million francs. Paul offers her nearly 4 million, his share of the winnings. She does not accept, but asks him to spend a week with her in Monte Carlo. He agrees. It turns out she is a back street music hall performer who was hired to lure him back, but she cannot go through with it, having fallen in love with him. Too ashamed to face Paul again, she secretly departs for Paris. When he discovers she has vanished, he makes a bargain with her brother: he will get the money Bertrand supposedly needs desperately in return for his sister''s location. Bertrand lies and tells him that she went to Monte Carlo. Helen runs into Bertrand at the train station and learns what he has done. She rushes to Monte Carlo. Paul returns to the baccarat table. When Helen enters the club to try to stop him, she is intercepted by the management and kept a virtual prisoner. Paul loses nearly all his money, but then his luck changes and he goes on another winning streak and he is on the verge of breaking the bank again. However, he loses everything on the very last bet. When Paul leaves, he sees Helen and Bertrand emerge from the manager''s office; he congratulates them. He returns to work driving a taxi. By chance, he takes a fare to a nightclub where Helen is performing. He dons his black tie and tails and goes inside. He dances one dance with Helen and pretends to still be fairly well off, before driving away. Helen chases after him in another taxi, finally catching up with him at the Cafe Russe. When she discovers he is the driver, not a passenger, she is ecstatic. Now that he is poor, she can tell him that she loves him. They embrace. Then he takes her inside the closed Cafe Russe, where he and the staff, Russian nobility like him, are privately celebrating the late Czar Nicholas II''s birthday in a grand manner.'
'mystery, horror','Sir Karell Borotyn (Holmes Herbert) is found murdered in his house, with two tiny pinpoint wounds on his neck. The attending doctor, Dr. Doskil (Donald Meek), and Sir Karell''s friend Baron Otto (Jean Hersholt) are convinced that he was killed by a vampire. They suspect Count Mora (Bela Lugosi) and his daughter Luna (Carroll Borland), while the Prague police inspector (Lionel Atwill) refuses to believe them. Borotyn''s daughter Irena (Elizabeth Allan) is the count’s next target. Professor Zelen (Lionel Barrymore), an expert on vampires and the occult, arrives in order to prevent her death. After Irena is menaced by the vampires on several occasions, Zelen, Baron Otto, and her fiance, Fedor (Henry Wadsworth) descend into the ruined parts of the castle to hunt the undead villains. When Zelen and Baron Otto find themselves alone, however, Zelen hypnotizes the Baron and asks him to relive the night of the Sir Borotyn''s murder. It is then revealed that the "vampires" are actually hired actors, and the entire experience has been an elaborate charade concocted by Zelen in the hopes of tricking the real murderer --Baron Otto-- into confessing to the crime. Acknowledging that the charade has failed to produce its intended results, Zelen, along with Irena and another actor who strongly resembles Borotyn, compels the hypnotized Baron into re-enacting the murder, effectively proving his guilt. During the re-enactment, Otto reveals his true motive: he wished to marry Irena, but her father would not allow it. He also reveals how he staged the murder to resemble a vampire attack. With Baron Otto arrested, Irena explains the plot to Fedor, who was not involved in the subterfuge and believed the vampires were real. The film ends with the actors who played the vampires packing up their supplies, and "Count Mora" exclaiming, "This vampire business, it has given me a great idea for a new act! Luna, in the new act, I will be the vampire! Did you watch me? I gave all of me! I was greater than any REAL vampire!" which is met with general lack of enthusiasm by his fellow thespians.'
'musical','A piano virtuoso has a child out of wedlock to her fiance, who is killed trying to save her life. Their son is brought up by foster parents and becomes a musician.'
'western','A radio and music star, Gene Autry (Gene Autry), and his friend, comedian Frog Millhouse (Smiley Burnette), attend a rodeo where Gene falls in love with one of the spectators, Millicent Thomas (Ann Rutherford). Millicent, who is being harassed by her father''s former ranch hand, Matt Kirby (Al Bridge), is delighted when Gene sings for the crowd, then later beats Matt in a bucking bronco competition. That night, while Gene dreams about Millicent, his $1,000 in rodeo winnings are stolen by a gypsy named Frantz (Willy Castello), the husband of a fortune-teller named Perdita (Marie Quillan). The next day, while Millicent goes into town with her father, rancher Timothy Thomas (Wade Boteler) with Millicent''s dog, Souvenir (a compulsive thief), takes a detour into the gypsy camp. Souvenir steals a basket containing Frantz and Perdita''s baby daughter Rica. Millicent later discovers the infant and takes her in, not knowing who her parents are. Frog and Gene, who end up working as cooks on the Thomas ranch, assume the baby is hers. Going by the name of "Arizona", Gene captures two wild stallions to impress Millicent and the cowgirls she has hired to replace Matt and his men, who have defected. After Souvenir steals Gene''s cookbook, his efforts in the kitchen are far less successful, and the meal that he and Frog prepare for the cowgirls makes them all sick. Meanwhile, Matt plots to rustle the Thomas'' cattle. While the cowgirls bathe in a pond, Matt steals their clothes in order to prevent them from protecting the herd. While searching for Baby Rica, Frantz recovers her from Millicent. Believing him to be a kidnapper, Gene pursues and captures the gypsy, who returns the money he stole from Gene after explaining that Rica is his daughter. Later, Gene sees Matt and his men stealing the cattle and apprehends all eight of them, including Matt, single-handedly. After Gene saves the ranch, he and Millicent, and Frog and Cuddles (one of the cowgirls), are married in a large, musical ceremony along with the other cowboys and girls. The wedding is interrupted, however, when everyone realizes that Souvenir has stolen all their wedding rings.[2]'
'comedy, fantasy','Part one A beautiful young woman named Hermia (Olivia de Havilland) is in love with Lysander (Dick Powell) and wishes to marry him. Her father Egeus (Grant Mitchell), however, has instructed her to marry Demetrius (Ross Alexander), whom he has chosen for her. When Hermia refuses to obey, stating she is in love with Lysander, her father invokes before Duke Theseus of Athens (Ian Hunter) an ancient Athenian law that states a daughter must marry the suitor chosen by her father, or else face death. Theseus offers her another choice—to live a life of chastity as a nun and worship the goddess Diana. Meanwhile, Peter Quince (Frank McHugh) and his fellow players gather to produce a stage play about the cruel death of Pyramus and Thisbe in honor of the Duke and his upcoming marriage to Hippolyta (Verree Teasdale). Quince reads the names of characters and bestows them to the players. Nick Bottom (James Cagney), who is playing the main role of Pyramus, is overly-enthusiastic and suggests himself for the characters of Thisbe, the Lion, and Pyramus at the same time. He would also prefer being a tyrant and recites some lines of Ercles. Quince ends the meeting instructing his players to meet at the Duke''s oak tree. In the forest outside Athens, Oberon (Victor Jory), the king of the fairies, and Titania (Anita Louise) his queen, are having an argument. Titania tells Oberon that she plans to stay there to attend the wedding of Duke Theseus and Hippolyta. Oberon and Titania are estranged because she refuses to give her Indian changeling to Oberon for use as his knight, since the child''s mother was one of Titania''s worshippers. Wanting to punish Titania''s disobedience, Oberon instructs his mischievous court jester Puck (Mickey Rooney) to retrieve a flower called "love-in-idleness". Originally a white flower, it turns purple when struck by Cupid''s bow. When someone applies the magical love potion to a sleeping person''s eyelids, it makes the victim fall in love with the first living creature seen upon awakening. Oberon comes across a sleeping Titania and applies the love potion to her eyes. He intends to make Titania fall in love with the first creature she sees when waking up, which he is sure will be an animal of the forest. Oberon''s intent is to shame Titania into giving up the little Indian changeling. Meanwhile, Hermia and Lysander have escaped to the same forest in hopes of eloping. Demetrius, who is also in love with Hermia, pursues them into the forest. He is followed by Helena (Jean Muir), who is desperate to reclaim Demetrius'' love. Helena continues to make advances towards Demetrius, promising to love him more than Hermia, but he rebuffs her with cruel insults. When Oberon sees this, he orders Puck to spread some of the love potion on the eyelids of Demetrius. When Puck later discovers the sleeping Lysander, he mistakes him for Demetrius—not having seen either before—and administers the love potion to the sleeping Lysander. During the night, Helena comes across the sleeping Lysander and wakes him up while attempting to determine whether he is dead or asleep. When he lays eyes on her, Lysander immediately falls in love with Helena. Meanwhile, the mischievous Puck turns Bottom into a donkey. When Titania wakes up and lays eyes on Bottom as a donkey, she falls in love with him. Oberon finds the abandoned changeling and takes him away. Part two When Oberon sees Demetrius still following Hermia, he instructs Puck to bring Helena to him while he applies the love potion to the sleeping Demetrius'' eyes. Upon waking up, Demetrius sees Helena, and now both Lysander and Demetrius are in love with Helena, who is convinced that her two suitors are simply mocking her. When Hermia encounters Helena with her two suitors, she accuses Helena of stealing Lysander away from her. The four quarrel with each other until Lysander and Demetrius become so enraged that they seek a place to duel each other to prove whose love for Helena is the greatest. Oberon orders Puck to keep Lysander and Demetrius from catching up with one another and to remove the charm from Lysander. After Puck applies the potion to the sleeping Lysander''s eyes, he returns to loving Hermia, while Demetrius continues to love Helena. And Titania is still in love with Bottom the donkey. Oberon leads all the fairies away with the changeling at his side. Having achieved his goals, Oberon releases Titania from her spell and they leave together in love once again. Following Oberon''s instructions, Puck removes the donkey''s head from Bottom, and arranges everything so that Hermia, Lysander, Demetrius, and Helena all believe that they have been dreaming when they awaken. Together they return from the forest to attend the wedding of Duke Theseus and Hippolyta. When Theseus sees Hermia and her father Egeus, and seeing that Demetrius does not love Hermia any more, Theseus overrules Egeus''s demands and arranges a group wedding—Hermia to marry Lysander, and Helena to marry Demetrius. The lovers decide that the previous night''s events must have been a dream. That night at the wedding, they all watch Bottom and his fellow players perform Pyramus and Thisbe. Unprepared as they are, the performers are so terrible playing their roles, the guests laugh as if it were meant to be a comedy. Before the encore, the guests sneak away and retire to bed. Afterwards, Oberon, Titania, Puck, and the other fairies enter, and bless the house and its occupants with good fortune. After everyone leaves, Puck suggests to the audience that what they just experienced might be nothing but a dream.'
'comedy','Amateur performers on Colonel Edwards'' popular radio show get a gong rung by the show''s sponsor, soap mogul Calvin Keller, if they aren''t any good. It doesn''t surprise the audience when would-be opera singer Tony Pagano is judged a disappointment, but the act of Eddie Warren and Marion Keller wowed the crowd. Everyone is stunned when they, too, get the gong. Marion''s fiancé Gordon Rogers dislikes her being a vaudeville entertainer. Eddie, an ice cream vendor, wants to succeed with or without her, but he''s jealous when he learns of Marion''s relationship with Gordon and parts ways with her. He is also irked when his pal Jimmy wins the radio contest along with his old dance partner, Bubbles. During the next show, Keller gets so many complaints from listeners and audience members that he insists Colonel Edwards reunite the team of Eddie and Marion that very night. It takes some doing, but ultimately the twosome steals the show.'
'comedy','Gloria Fay (Joan Blondell) and Mae O''Brien (Glenda Farrell) are two former showgirls working in an amusement park. Sailor Kewpie Wiggins (Allen Jenkins) is in love with Gloria, when he wins all their prizes with his skill at tossing rings, he learns that Gloria and Mae are broke. Kewpie suggests that Gloria enters the Miss Pacific Fleet contest to win the cash prize. Kewpie then offers to enter a boxing match in order to win 5000 votes for Gloria. He introduces Gloria and Mae to his friend Sgt.Tom Foster (Warren Hull). Tom and Gloria fall in love. During the boxing match, Kewpie is losing the match until he sees that Gloria and Tom are cuddling together in the audience. Angered, he knocks out his opponent and decides to give his 5000 votes to another contestant Virgie Matthews (Marie Wilson). However, Gloria is still slightly ahead in the contest. Sadie Freytag (Minna Gombell) who is married to August Freytag, the creator of the beauty contest is jealous of Gloria and decides to kidnap her, so the prize will go to someone else instead. When Mae learns of her plans, she alerts Kewpie, who spots the kidnappers putting a woman in a small boat. Kewpie chases them to a ship where he frees the woman who ends up to be Sadie. At the last minute, Tom and Gloria arrive at contest headquarters with enough votes for her to win the contest. Gloria and Mae now have enough money to return home to New York.'
'comedy, musical','Commodore Jackson (W. C. Fields) is the captain of a Mississippi showboat in the late nineteenth century. Tom Grayson (Bing Crosby) is engaged to be married and has been disgraced for refusing to fight a duel with Major Patterson (John Miljan). Accused of being a coward, Grayson joins Jackson''s showboat. Over the duration of the film, the behaviour of the meek and mild Tom Grayson alters as a consequence of the constant representation of him, by Commodore Jackson, as "The Notorious Colonel Steele", "the Singing Killer", and the constant attribution, by Jackson, of duelling victories by Grayson to unrelated corpses freshly dragged from the river beside the showboat as "yet another victim of the notorious Colonel Steele, the Singing Killer". The film provides sufficient opportunities for Crosby to sing the Rodgers and Hart songs, including the centerpiece number, "Soon", while Fields gets to tell some outlandish stories. Crosby and Fields worked well together and there is one memorable scene in which Fields tries to tell Crosby how to act tougher. In the film, Crosby does a number of brilliantly engineered sight gags involving a chair and a bowie knife. Another highlight is Fields'' remarkable story about his exploits among one notorious Indian tribe.'
'drama, crime','Private detective T.N. Thompson, nicknamed "Dynamite" due to his initials, takes an interest when a man is murdered in San Francisco leaving a casino. The dead man, D.H. Matthews, had an argument outside the casino with Jarl Dvorjak, a celebrated pianist who was gambling while his aloof and money-mad wife Charmian was away. Dvorjak''s acquaintance with Mona Lewis led him to the casino, which is owned by her father Clark Lewis and closed by the police after the killing. Mona becomes a suspect, particularly after Dvorjak''s business manager Carey Williams is killed as well. When the pianist himself is shot while playing an organ, Thompson puts everything together and reveals to all that Matthews had actually been a son of Dvorjak''s from a previous marriage who was conspiring with Charmian to gain his fortune.'
'mystery','James Houghland (Mailes), inventor of a new method by which television signals can be instantaneously sent anywhere in the world, refuses to sell the process to television companies, who then send agents to acquire the invention any way they can. On the night of his initial broadcast Houghland is mysteriously murdered in the middle of his demonstration and it falls to Police Chief Nelson (Mowbray) to determine who the murderer is from the many suspects present.'
'drama, mystery','An African-American man is framed of the murder of a white woman, but a white man is found to be responsible.[2][3]'
'comedy, drama','Captain John Winslow (Arthur Byron) is notified by the Secretary of the Navy that his cruiser will be receiving a new firing control gear manufactured by World Electric company, which is supposed to revolutionize naval warfare. The gear vanishes and is quickly located by intelligence officers where it is being transported across the Mexican border. When the gear is returned to the ship the secrecy surrounding the events catches the notice of reporter Walter Drake (J. Anthony Hughes). Lieutenant Tom Randolph (Robert Taylor) and Captain Winslow welcome visitors Al Duval (Raymond Hatton), who works for World Electric Company, and Victor Hanson (Jean Hersholt) from the Navy Department, aboard while the gear is installed. Meanwhile, Sailor Spud Burke (Nat Pendleton) gets caught between his sweetheart Toots Timmons (Una Merkel) and an old flame Betty Lansing (Jean Parker). When the new gear is being lifted into place a cable breaks and it is dropped, later this is found to be an act of sabotage. To add to the confusion, Al Duval is murdered during a gun salute. The investigation begins and suspicions are running high when a second murder takes place, this time it is the chief electrician. The Captain devises a plot to trap the murderer and the trail soon leads to the powder magazine, where Victor Hanson threatens to blow up the ship. Hanson claims that World Electric Company had stolen the idea and he wants revenge. Ultimately Hanson is captured and the gear is installed.'
'drama, crime','Steve Grey (Spencer Tracy) is a hotshot New York newspaper reporter, specializing in murder. When a crooked businessman named Halford is murdered, Steve pins the blame on the dead man''s associate, Henry Mander (Harvey Stephens), theorizing that Halford was killed by a rifle from a shooting gallery across the street. Mander is arrested, tried, convicted and sentenced to death. Steve goes to visit his father, Pop Grey, who is depressed over his business being ruined. The hard-working, hard-drinking Steve is urged by a woman who loves him, Mary (Virginia Bruce), a gossip columnist, to take some time off. Another newspaper colleague, Shorty (James Stewart), comes to find him, saying their editor wants Steve to do an exclusive interview with condemned man Mander in prison. He goes to Sing Sing to do so. Out of guilt, however, Steve shocks everyone by confessing to having committed the murder himself, as revenge for Halford and Mander having ruined his father. Steve''s last act is to tell his editor that he''s got his biggest story ever.'
'comedy, mystery','On a short flight to Catalina Island off the California coast, a passenger named Roswell T. Forrest (Brooks Benedict) gets sick. Hildegarde Withers (Edna May Oliver) and the others aboard are startled when he is found dead upon landing. It appears to be murder to Miss Withers, but she has a tough time convincing local Police Chief Britt (Spencer Charters) and coroner Dr. O''Rourke (Arthur Hoyt). When she contacts her friend, Police Inspector Oscar Piper (James Gleason), for more information about the deceased, he recognizes the name: the man was a vital witness in a case against a crime syndicate and had a price on his head of $10,000. He flies from New York to assist her in investigating the case and protect her from mob retribution. When he arrives, the pair argue over which of the people aboard the plane is the killer: Withers suspects poisoning – Forrest had been given a drink, a cigarette, and even a dose of smelling salts by Withers herself – but before this can be confirmed, the body is stolen. While Piper questions those involved, Withers discovers that McArthur (Morgan Wallace), the gangster who had offered the reward for Forrest''s death, has registered at the hotel under the flimsy alias of Arthur Mack. When she eavesdrops on his telephone conversation, she learns that he will be leaving an envelope for someone. She purloins it from the mailbox and finds $10,000 inside. More murders occur. Marvin Deving is shot and killed just before he can reveal some information to Piper. Meanwhile, Withers and Piper learn that the first victim was not Forrest, but his bodyguard Tom Kelsey. He and the real Forrest (George Meeker) had switched identities. After McArthur confronts Withers at gunpoint, trussing her up and putting her in the closet, from which she is rescued by Piper, McArthur is also found dead. Although it is staged to look like a suicide, Withers notices that the pistol in his hand is not his own. When an employee complains that the fish in the hotel pond are all dead, Withers finds a pack of cigarettes discarded nearby; one of the cigarettes had fallen into the water, poisoning and killing the fish. With the murder weapon found, all the pieces come together. Withers takes Piper to see the grieving Kay. She offers the widow a cigarette, then casually mentions where she got it. When Kay refuses to smoke it, Withers tells Piper that McArthur''s gun must be in the room. Kay pulls it out and tells them that she will have to kill them both now, but Withers manages to distract her, enabling Piper to disarm her. It turns out that the Devings thought they had been doublecrossed by McArthur when they did not receive their reward, unaware that Withers had taken it. When Marvin tried to betray McArthur in return, he was killed by his employer, and Kay then did in McArthur.'
'musical','Diane De Valle (Bebe Daniels) is an aging theatre actress who can''t deal with getting older. Trying to hide it, she has to come to terms she is being replaced by a younger actress. She has to defeat the much younger Peggy Harper (Alice Faye) for a role of a young woman in an upcoming stage production.'
'drama, adventure','One night in Portsmouth, England in 1787, a press gang breaks into a local tavern and presses all of the men drinking there into naval service. One of the men inquires as to what ship they will sail on, and the press gang leader informs him that it is the HMS Bounty. Upon inquiring as to who the captain is, another of the men is told the captain is William Bligh (Charles Laughton), and attempts to escape, as Bligh is a brutal tyrant who routinely administers harsh punishment to officers and crew alike who lack discipline, cause any infraction on board the ship, or in any manner defy his authority. The Bounty leaves England several days later on a two-year voyage over the Pacific Ocean. Fletcher Christian (Clark Gable), the ship''s lieutenant, is a formidable yet compassionate man who disapproves of Bligh''s treatment of the crew. Roger Byam (Franchot Tone) is an idealistic midshipman who is divided between his loyalty to Bligh, owing to his family''s naval tradition, and his friendship with Christian. During the voyage, the enmity between Christian and Bligh grows after Christian openly challenges Bligh''s unjust practices aboard the ship. When the ship arrives at the island of Tahiti, where the crew acquires breadfruit plants to take to the West Indies, as intended, Bligh punishes Christian by refusing to let him leave the ship during their stay. Byam, meanwhile, sets up residency on the island, living with the island chief, Hitihiti (William Bambridge), and his daughter, Tehani (Movita Castaneda), and compiling an English dictionary of the Tahitian language. Hitihiti persuades Bligh to allow Christian a day pass on the island. Bligh agrees but quickly repeals the pass out of spite. Christian disregards the order and spends his one-day off the ship romancing a Tahitian girl, Maimiti (Mamo Clark). Christian promises her he will be back someday. After leaving Tahiti the crew begins to talk of mutiny after Bligh''s harsh discipline leads to the death of the ship''s beloved surgeon, Mr. Bacchus (Dudley Digges), and Bligh cuts water rationing to the crew in favor of providing water for the breadfruit plants. Christian, although initially opposing the idea, decides he can no longer tolerate Bligh''s brutality when he witnesses crew members shackled in iron chains, and he approves the mutiny. The crew raids the weapons cabinet and seizes the ship. Bligh and his loyalists are cast into a boat and set adrift at sea with a map and rations to ensure their survival. Due to Bligh''s steady leadership, they are able to find their way back to land. Meanwhile, Christian orders that Bounty return to Tahiti. Byam, who was in his cabin during the mutiny, disapproves of what Christian has done and decides the two can no longer be friends. Months later, Byam is married to Tehani and Christian has married Maimiti and has a child with her, while the rest of the crew are enjoying their freedom on the island. After a long estrangement, Byam and Christian reconcile their friendship. However, when the British ship HMS Pandora is spotted approaching, Byam and Christian decide they must part ways. Byam and several crew members remain on the island for the ship to take them back to England, while Christian leads the remaining crew, his wife and several Tahitian men and women back on board Bounty in search of a new island on which to seek refuge. Byam boards the Pandora and, much to his surprise, discovers that Bligh is the captain. Bligh, who suspects that Byam was complicit in the mutiny, has him imprisoned for the remainder of the journey across the sea. Back in England Byam is court-martialed and found guilty of mutiny. Before the court condemns him, Byam speaks of Bligh''s cruel, dehumanising conduct aboard Bounty. Due to the intervention of his friend Sir Joseph Banks (Henry Stephenson) and Lord Hood (David Torrence), Byam is pardoned by King George III and allowed to resume his naval career at sea. Meanwhile, Christian has found Pitcairn, an uninhabited yet sustainable island that he believes will provide adequate refuge from the reach of the Royal Navy. After Bounty crashes on the rocks, Christian orders her to be burned.'
'crime','A newspaper man, Larry Doyle and a young woman, Anne Olgivie, meet by chance in a coffeeshop. She hasn''t got the money to pay, and he pays for her without being seen. In the telegraphic office, where she wants to send a wire to her mother asking to send her some money as she is broke, she is not permitted to send it, but he followed her and read the thrown away message. On the street waiting the light for the pedestrians to switch, it seems as if she throws herself under a car, but he make it look as if she embraces him wildly. From that point on they know each other how broke they are and he asks her to confide in him. They take a suite in a Hotel, pretending to be on a honeymoon and trie to rise some money. Some pals send him 50 dollars, that calm down the Hotel Manager at first. Meantime Doyle tries also to contact the newspaper in St. Louis as he thinks to make a big story about the Eel, a gangster, who puzzles the Police. But there are difficulties in identifying Doyle because his chief in Chicago, mad at him, said he''s not Doyle. As he ran out of money again, Doyle pawns a police revolver he was given after he helped the police solve a case. He gets 25 Dollars. Short after Doyle and Anne are involved in the shooting between the Eel and others,and Doyle sits in the car of the Eel being ordered to drive away the money and to meet the next at five thirty. Meantime the police has identified the gun used in the shooting,and although Doyle had explained to the Police and the District Attorney how the shooting had taken place he is suspected of having committed the crime. Finally Larry and Anne go to the Pawnshop, where they pawned the revolver, and after a fight with the proprietor, the Eel comes in. Larry pretends to be the shopkeeper, but the Eel knows him and pointing a gun he threatens Larry. Fortunaltely Anne had a gun and is able to shoot just before the Eal kills Doyle. The case is solved, but all the newspapers write of Mrs. Doyle, and that worries Larry. But the final scene is not worried at all, as an intense kiss answers to the problem.'
'thriller','Top-secret documents being transported by French captain Jacques Benoit are stolen in Constantinople, resulting in his arrest and sentencing to Devil''s Island. Determined to vindicate him, wife Margaret learns that Jacques had met wealthy Dr. Van Wyke in transit. Suspecting him, she books passage on an ocean liner to New York City under an assumed name and schemes to meet Van Wyke during the voyage. Attracting romantic interest from passenger Juan Santanda as well as from Van Wyke, she finds the stolen documents and tries to hide them. Santanda turns out to be a jewel thief. When she explains her true identity and purpose, he uses a blowtorch to open a safe and help her retrieve the documents, then sacrifices his own life when she is trapped, staying behind as he and Van Wyke kill one another. Jacques Benoit is released and presented the Legion of Honor medal.'
'drama, musical','To avoid an arranged marriage to Don Carlos, an elderly Spanish duke, Princess Marie masquerades as her uncle''s former servant, Marietta, and escapes from France on a ship with casquette girls who are traveling to New Orleans to marry colonists. On board, Marietta befriends Julie. En route, the women discuss what type of man they want to marry. "Marietta" shocks the other girls by stating that she does not intend to get married to anyone. Shortly after, the ship is boarded by pirates, who kill the entire crew and take the girls ashore. After the pirates divide the loot, they turn their attention to the girls. Just then, singing is heard ("Tramp! Tramp! Tramp!"). The pirates extinguish their torches and fire to try to avoid detection, but Marietta takes one of the torches and runs towards the sound of the singing, crying out "help, help". Mercenaries rout the pirates and rescue the women. The mercenaries'' leader, Captain Richard Warrington, sings "Neath a Southern Moon" to Marietta. Despite his attraction to her, however, Warrington declares that he does not intend to get married. Warrington and his men take the casquette girls to New Orleans, where they are welcomed by the Governor. The women are housed in the convent while they get to know their potential husbands. When some men approach Marietta, she declares that she does not want to marry any of them. The Governor feels that he has seen Marietta before in Paris, but she denies it. When she pretends to have a disreputable past, the Governor orders a pair of soldiers to escort her away in disgrace. Warrington relieves them of their duty and finds her a place to stay, even paying the first month''s rent. Though Marietta tries to rid herself of Warrington, he is undaunted. Just then, a group of gypsies stroll by, advertising their Marionette Theater. The gypsy leader, Rodolpho, has his daughter sing, and Warrington joins in ("Italian Street Song"). Stung by Warrington''s remark that she might not be able to sing as well as the gypsy, Marietta surprises him by doing so beautifully. While he is distracted getting rid of three would-be suitors, she slips away. The following day, Warrington discovers that Marietta is working at the Marionette Theater. When he visits her after the performance, Marietta tells him that his presence is "most unwelcome". The captain asks her if he would be welcome "somewhere else"; Marietta answers "yes". As she goes out for lunch, Warrington joins her, noting that he is "somewhere else", and "Here I am – welcome me". She is unable to suppress a smile, indicating she has changed her opinion of him. Soon after, however, a large award is offered for information about her whereabouts. Warrington persuades her to trust him, and takes her away by boat. During this time together, they discover that they are falling in love with each other ("I''m Falling in Love with Someone"). When Warrington asks Marietta to sing the song back to him, she says that she has a song she knows better. Later, however, they are found by French soldiers, and her true identity is revealed. Her uncle and Don Carlos are expected on the next ship to take her back. Marietta is to attend a ball arranged by the Governor in her honor. Julie comes to see her; she tells Marietta that Warrington had been ordered to leave New Orleans that day, but intends to come to the ball. Her uncle warns her that "if Warrington attempted to see her again, he would be arrested for treason and shot". Marietta asks Julie to stop Warrington from coming, but they realize it is too late when they hear him and his men singing ("Tramp! Tramp! Tramp!"). When Warrington enters the ballroom, the Governor tries to get him to leave in order to save his life. After the captain dances with Marietta, she tells him that she will sing her song to him the following evening. She pretends to have been toying with him to deceive her uncle. When Warrington is leaving, Marietta sings "Ah, Sweet Mystery of Life", joined by Warrington. The lovers then flee to the wild frontier.'
'comedy, musical','In Milan, Otis B. Driftwood (Groucho), business manager for wealthy dowager Mrs. Claypool (Margaret Dumont), has stood her up and is having dinner with another woman in the very same restaurant. When she discovers him seated directly behind her, Driftwood joins Mrs. Claypool, and introduces her to Herman Gottlieb (Sig Ruman), director of the New York Opera Company, also dining at the restaurant. Driftwood has arranged for Mrs. Claypool to invest $200,000 in the opera company, allowing Gottlieb to engage Rodolfo Lassparri (Walter Woolf King), the "greatest tenor since Caruso". Backstage at the opera house, chorister Ricardo Baroni (Allan Jones) hires his best friend Fiorello (Chico) to be his manager. Ricardo is in love with the soprano, Rosa Castaldi (Kitty Carlisle), who is also being courted by Lassparri. Driftwood arrives and finds Lassparri attacking Tomasso, his dresser (Harpo), who knocks Lassparri unconscious by hitting him over the head with a mallet. Fiorello appears and identifies himself as the manager of the "greatest tenor in the world". Driftwood, mistakenly thinking Fiorello is referring to Lassparri, signs Baroni to a contract. Driftwood, Mrs. Claypool, Rosa, Lassparri and Gottlieb all set sail for New York aboard an ocean liner. After bidding farewell to Rosa at the pier, Ricardo, Fiorello, and Tomasso stow away inside Driftwood''s steamer trunk. After being discovered, Driftwood tries to get the three of them to leave, as he is expecting a rendezvous with Mrs. Claypool. Fiorello refuses to go until they''ve eaten, and eventually Driftwood''s tiny stateroom is crowded with an assortment of people. (see Stateroom scene below) Later, Lassparri spots the three stowaways among the immigrants on the ship, and they are caught and thrown into the brig. They escape with help from Driftwood and are able to sneak into the country by assuming the identities of three famous bearded aviators,[n 1] who are traveling aboard the ship. After a welcoming reception in New York, the stowaways'' true identities are discovered and they hide out in Driftwood''s hotel room, pursued by police sergeant Henderson (Robert Emmett O''Connor). Meanwhile, Ricardo is reunited with Rosa after climbing in the window of her hotel room. Ricardo has an altercation with Lassparri, which results in both Rosa and Driftwood being fired from the opera company by Gottlieb. The boys decide to seek revenge by sabotaging the opening night performance of Il trovatore ending with the abduction of Lassparri, forcing Gottlieb to substitute Ricardo and Rosa in his place. The audience clearly prefers Baroni over Lassparri and the latter is booed and hit with an apple after he attempts to return to the stage. The film ends with Driftwood and Fiorello attempting to negotiate another contract, as Rosa and Ricardo sing an encore.'
'comedy','Cigar-stand attendants Johnny (Wheeler) and Newton (Woolsey) get mixed up in a murder investigation at a radio station.'
'comedy, romance','Marcia (Joan Crawford) is a young socialite who shares her New York home with her alcoholic grandmother, Fanny Townsend (Edna May Oliver). Marcia is a firm believer that a couple must be faithful to one another, unlike her peers who do not feel so strongly. Marcia meets Jim (Franchot Tone), who agrees with her on the subject of a couple''s monogamy and pursues her. Marcia, however, decides to pursue Sherry (Robert Montgomery), whom Marcia sees as a challenge and seeks to cure him of his philandering and womanizing nature. After a night at a club where some of Sherry''s past flings swirl about him, the couple discuss the institution of marriage and have clearly divergent views. Despite this, Marcia and Sherry are married, yet Sherry continues as before. Even on their honeymoon, Sherry flirts with the gorgeous Sally French (Jean Chatburn). Later, when the newly married couple returns home, Sherry goes home with a friend''s date, Theresa German (Gail Patrick), and doesn''t return that night. Marcia realizes her philandering husband has already ruined their marriage. Sherry admits to spending the night with Theresa and admits his infidelity in a rather abrupt and unapologetic manner. Marcia decides to teach her husband a lesson by having a party to which she invites Sherry''s former flames along with their mates. Marcia announces that she intends to be unfaithful to her husband,by having a fling with Jim, who still cares for Marcia. Marcia and Jim escape from the party during a game of charades, and she returns the next morning. Sherry then sees how much his wife loves him and is convinced to reform his former ways. In any event, Marcia remained faithful to her beliefs and her husband and did not go through as she planned.'
'drama','Ambitious, idealistic Stephen Chase (Pat O''Brien) goes to work for the Atlantis Oil Company and is sent to a remote outpost in rural China run by "No. 1 Boss" (Arthur Byron). After a while, he feels secure enough to send for his fiancée and goes to Yokohama to meet and marry her. However, when he gets there, all that is waiting for him is a telegram, in which she explains she is unwilling to live in such a backward country. He strikes up a conversation with Hester Adams (Josephine Hutchinson). She had come to see China for the first time with her father, a professor of Oriental studies, only to have him die on the voyage. As they become better acquainted, Stephen comes up with an idea (partly to save himself from losing face). He asks Hester to marry him, explaining that it would be a partnership. She is impressed by his dream of modernizing China and accepts. It does not take long however for them to fall in love. No matter what happens, nothing shakes Stephen''s faith in the company. When his friend, No. 1 Boss, is callously transferred to a lesser position, the old man commits suicide rather than accept the insult. The new boss, J.T. McCarger (Donald Crisp), orders Stephen to man an even more isolated post near Siberia. Stephen is reluctant to go since Hester is pregnant with their first child, but has no choice. Once there, he makes the agonized decision to go deal with a dangerous oil fire rather than stay and help the doctor deliver the baby. When he returns, he learns that the child is dead. This causes a temporary rift between him and his wife. Things improve. Stephen is promoted and assigned to a large city in the south. The Chases becomes good friends with another couple, Don and Alice Wellman (John Eldredge and Jean Muir). Don works for Stephen, but he is so contemptuous of the Chinese that two important clients refuse to renew their contracts unless he is fired. Stephen is torn, but does let Don go. Don''s replacement is McCarger. Despite a prolonged drought and an outbreak of cholera, Stephen ruthlessly collects payment from his customers, earning the best record of any branch in China. Then, communists take over the city. An officer (Keye Luke) shows up at the company''s offices and demands the gold stored in the safe. Stephen bargains with him and gets everyone except McCarger and himself evacuated to a ship by promising to give up the gold in a few hours. In the meantime, he sends for Ho (Tetsu Komai), a very well-connected Chinese customer and good friend, hoping he can use his influence. When Ho bravely shows up however, he is shot down in cold blood by the soldiers. Outraged, Stephen and McCarger take the gold and escape out the back door. McCarger is killed and Stephen wounded, but a passing boat rescues him and the gold. In the hospital, he is visited by the new man in charge of the Orient for the company. Stephen is delighted to be offered the position of his assistant. However, when his boss outlines his plan to institute modern business practices, Stephen disagrees, explaining that, despite appearances, the "new" China is still run by the old ways. When he recovers, he is humiliated to learn that his job has been given to another man as a result. Further, he is given only menial tasks in an effort to get him to quit (and thus forfeit his pension). Hester gives Stephen''s boss a tongue-lashing and reveals that her husband holds the patent for a lamp the company uses to popularize the use of its product. However, it is a call from the president of Atlantis, disturbed by the news that Stephen has been passed over for the job, that changes the man''s mind. Stephen''s shaken faith in the company is restored.'
'comedy, horror','Faced with an upcoming inheritance tax, multimillionaire Jasper Whyte summons a group of people to his mansion to announce that he is leaving each of them one million dollars. This changes when he discovers a long lost granddaughter Doris Waverly who comes to his mansion; Jasper decides to leave his total fortune to her. Another Doris Waverly comes to the mansion and a murder is committed.'
'comedy drama','In New York City, Jaret Oktar''s antiques shop fails. Actress Elizabeth Cheney attends the auction of his stock, just to pass the time and sit down, while concert violinist Morris Rosenberg shows up after it ends. All three are out of work and homeless. Otkar offers Rosenberg half of a bed Napoleon slept on (the only unsold item); they take it to the park on a pushcart and sleep on it outside under the stars. Meanwhile, Cheney sleeps on the subway. While Otkar looks for a more permanent place for the bed, Rosenberg decides to practice. Cheney happens along and offers to pass the hat afterward. He is insulted at the thought of playing for pennies, but after she leaves, he swallows his pride. After a performance, street sweeper Mr. Sweeney expresses his desire to learn how to play a particular tune; seizing the opportunity, Otkar offers him lessons from Rosenberg for a place to put their bed. Sweeney has a tool room in a stable in the park. After they settle in, Otkar goes looking for food. While trying to steal a cooked chicken from a fancy restaurant, he runs into Cheney, who has purloined some celery. Eventually, she persuades him to take her in. Rosenberg objects, but gives in. The next day, Otkar has Rosenberg distract a zoo attendant with music so he can steal some of the meat intended for the lions. Afterward, Sweeney takes Rosenberg to the bank where his wife works and where they have their savings. Rosenberg envies Mr. Sheridan, the bank president, unaware that Sheridan has his own troubles: the bank is in danger of failing. That night, Sheridan unsuccessfully begs an associate for help before the bank examiners check his books the next day. Sheridan''s bank does indeed close, taking the Sweeneys'' savings with it. The banker tries to drown himself, but the water is too shallow, and Otkar pulls him out of the mud. Otkar and Cheney persuade him to go back, face his depositors and try to salvage something. The trio make it through the winter. When spring comes, Rosenberg has exciting news. He has gotten work with a symphony orchestra out of town. When he leaves, Otkar decides it would not be right for an unmarried man and woman to live together, so he decides to head south and leave the place and the bed to Cheney. Then Sheridan shows up. The government is going to bail out his bank, and the Sweeneys will not lose their savings. Furthermore, he wants to buy the bed. With the proceeds, Otkar finally has something to offer Cheney; he calls her "darling" for the first time and embraces her.'
'drama','The doctor Don Middleton (Joel McCrea) is so immersed in his work that he neglects his wife, Elsa (Rosemary Ames), who begins spending more time with her husband''s best friend. The two develop an intimate attraction. Don and Elsa decide to divorce, ignorant of the effect on their daughter Molly (Shirley Temple). When Elsa decides to remarry, Molly runs away from home.'
'drama','Small-town girl Jane Bradford (Lois January) falls for Nick (Noel Madison), a guy from the big city who offers her the opportunity to get away from her small-town life. He also offers her "headache powder" that she is unaware is really cocaine--and that Nick is a drug dealer. By the time they get to the city, she is hooked on her new medicine. Jane''s brother Eddie (Dean Benton) goes to the city to look for her, after he and their mother don''t hear from her for over a year. Eddie gets a job as a drive-in carhop and is befriended by waitress Fanny (Sheila Bromley). Fanny is one of Nick''s customers, and Fanny soon gets Eddie hooked on the "headache powder." This vice soon sends Eddie''s and Fanny''s lives downhill: they''re both fired and unable to find new jobs. On the periphery of both Eddie and Jane''s lives is Dorothy Farley (Lois Lindsay), a customer at the drive-in. Dorothy, dating Dan, comes from a wealthy family and throws her money around easily, and she is willing to financially assist those in need.'
'romantic comedy','Country girl Loretta Dalrymple (Marion Davies) arrives in New York City and gets a job as a chambermaid in a luxurious hotel, the same hotel in which con man "Click" Wiley (Pat O''Brien) and his photographer partner Ed Olsen (Frank McHugh) are three weeks in arrears. Desperate to avoid being evicted by the assistant manager, Mr. Yates (Berton Churchill), Click has Ed make a composite photograph by combining the best features of several renowned Hollywood beauties and enters the resulting fake under the name "Dawn Glory" in a nationwide beauty contest for the $2500 prize. Dawn Glory wins. Bingo Nelson (Dick Powell), a pilot famous for performing crazy stunts, immediately falls in love when he spots the photograph in his friend Click''s suite. After heroically flying to Alaska through a blizzard to deliver serum for some sick children, he proposes to Dawn Glory on national radio. As a result, reporters clamor to interview the woman, putting Click in a tough spot. Slattery (Lyle Talbot) of the Express is particularly persistent, digging up Click''s checkered past to try to blackmail him into giving him an exclusive interview. Finally, Click is about to admit the truth when Ed''s girlfriend Gladys Russell (Mary Astor) discovers Loretta trying on a dress delivered for Miss Glory. Earlier in the day, Loretta had splurged and gotten her hair styled as in the photograph. Gladys and Ed pass off Loretta as Dawn. Soon, advertising endorsements and royalties make Click and Ed a lot of money. Simeon Hamburgher (Al Shean), president of Nemo Yeast, the beauty contest''s sponsor, hires Bingo to fly over the city and tout Miss Glory''s endorsement of his product over a loudspeaker. His bitter rival, J. Horace Freischutz (Joseph Cawthorn), orders his assistant Joe Bonner (Hobart Cavanaugh) to arrange a meeting somehow with Dawn, so he can try to persuade her to sign with him. Bonner pays thugs Petey (Allen Jenkins) and Blackie (Barton MacLane) to kidnap her. After Petey learns that Dawn is really an impostor, he and his partner decide to blackmail Click instead. Click agrees to pay them off if they will kidnap Bingo, a persistent nuisance who keeps trying to talk to Dawn. Gladys, jealous of a possible rival for Ed''s affections, suggests they take Dawn instead. Petey is dazzled by Dawn''s beauty, so he does. However, Bingo tracks them down and rescues her. She agrees to marry him and announces it to everyone from the skies over New York.'
'comedy','Afraid of marriage, Simone (Mary Ellis) breaks off her long term engagement with her fiancé Paul de Lille (Tullio Carminati). Paul heads to the top of The Eiffel Tower with thoughts of suicide. In another part of Paris and also afraid of marriage, Mignon (Ida Lupino) breaks it off from her young lover (James Blakely). Despairing, Mignon also climbs to the top of The Eiffel Tower intending to leap to her death. There she meets Paul and the two compare stories. After discussion, Paul dissuades her from leaping and the two conspire to make their respective partners jealous by pretending to have an affair with each other.'
'comedy','Matthew Putnam (Victor Jory) is summoned back to his small hometown of Rockridge by his aged, bedridden aunt Nettie (Helen Lowell) after seven years of enjoying himself in Europe, where he had been sent to study. She is tired and wants him to take charge of Putnam Dairies, the family business and the town''s major employer. Every mother with a marriageable daughter is excited by the return of the wealthy young man, including Mathilda Sherman (Clara Blandick). However, Matthew shows no interest in Mathilda''s daughter Irene (Geneva Mitchell). When Matthew visits his good friend Will Oliver (Charley Grapewin), he is pleasantly surprised to see how grown up and beautiful Will''s daughter Marge (Jean Arthur) has become. His reluctance to remain in town evaporates as he spends more and more time with her. This does not sit well with Roy Daniels (Robert (Tex) Allen). When Roy makes his bid for her affections, she turns him down, so he decides to leave for New York City the next day. Marge is up all night trying to balance the church''s finances, for which she and Roy are responsible. Finally, an irate Will calls over the shared telephone line and leaves an angry message for Roy to come over to straighten out the mess before he leaves town. However, eavesdroppers misinterpret the message and assume that Roy has gotten Marge pregnant and is trying to leave town without marrying her. Mathilda is delighted and bullies her husband Tom (Oscar Apfel), the president of the Sherman Bank, into firing Marge. She also disqualifies Marge''s winning entry in the prestigious annual flower show. Marge and Matthew are oblivious to the rumors. He asks her to marry him; she accepts, provided they elope the next day. Meanwhile, when Matthew was late for their elopement, Marge assumed he believed the stories. Will, having discovered it was his call that started the whole mess, shoots himself. Fortunately, he botches his suicide and survives with only a minor wound. Marge and Mathew separately find out about the ugly stories being circulated about Marge. Matthew decides to teach the town a sharp lesson. He first transfers all his money out of the Sherman Bank, which would lead to its collapse, and orders the replacement of all 300 local workers with out-of-towners. Faced with the destruction of their community, the workers organize a meeting that Matthew attends in the new town hall. Before things get totally out of hand, Matthew''s aunt Nettie - who hadn''t left bed the last fifteen years - shows up and gives the townsfolk a tongue-lashing for their malicious gossip by bringing up their own past misdeeds. Everything is eventually straightened out and the couple sneak off to the nearby town Springfield to get married. However, the chastened townspeople have not changed their ways too much it seems. A mock disagreement between the newlyweds about where they should spend their honeymoon is seen and misreported as a full-blown argument by Bert West.'
'drama','Gogo is a young boy of English extraction growing up in Paris. He is friendly with the neighbor girl, Mimsey. After his mother dies, Gogo is taken to England by his uncle who gives him an English name based on his mother''s maiden name, transforming Gogo into Peter Ibbetson. "So ended the first chapter in the strange foreshadowed life of Peter Ibbetson." Now an adult Englishman, Ibbetson (Gary Cooper) is an architect working in Yorkshire on a restoration job for the British Duke of Towers (John Halliday). He falls in love with Mary, Duchess of Towers (Ann Harding), and she with him, although she is already married. When the duke discovers this, he callously demands they explain themselves. Peter then realizes that Mary is his childhood sweetheart. All these years, Mary has kept, in the dresser beside her bed, the dress she wore at their last childhood meeting. The Duke becomes jealous and pulls a gun on Ibbetson. Ibbetson manages to kill the Duke in self-defense. "So Death ended the second chapter. And then, in a prison on the bleak English moors..." Ibbetson is unjustly convicted of murder, sentenced to life in prison, and despairs that he will never see Mary again. However, the lovers are reunited in one another''s dreams, which connect them spiritually. Peter can leave prison to join Mary in sunlit glades and meadows, but only in his slumbers. "...and so, many years went by." Though the years pass, Peter and Mary remain youthful in their dreams. Mary eventually dies of old age, but she goes to her usual dream rendezvous one last time and speaks to Peter from beyond. Then Peter joins her there.'
'drama','The film tells the story of problems in the lives of doctors and patients. A female doctor (Colbert) probes the twisted minds of her patients in a mental institution. The very caring psychiatrist and her colleague face discrimination by a conservative new supervisor.'
'drama, adventure','Michael Donovan (McLaglen), a soldier of fortune and former Marine colonel, is fed up with his latest job: keeping spoiled playboy George Foster (Michael Whalen) out of trouble from women and liquor. Thus, he is eager to accept when revolutionaries Valdis (Lumsden Hare) and Ledgard (Walter Kingsford) want to hire him to kidnap King Peter II, ruler of a country somewhere in the Balkans. When a drunken Foster wakes up and interrupts their meeting, Donovan calls him his aide. Donovan and Foster reconnoiter at a masquerade ball held at the king''s palace, but Peter does not make an appearance. Foster quickly falls in love with a woman there named Sonia (Gloria Stuart). When the two men sneak back into the palace later that night, they are surprised to discover that Peter (Freddie Bartholomew) is just a boy. Donovan is too disgusted to want to abduct him, though Peter is thrilled at the idea of an adventure. However, when Countess Sonia stumbles upon the scene and raises the alarm, Donovan has no choice. Peter helpfully shows him a secret escape passage; Sonia reluctantly goes with them to take care of the lad. As prearranged, the kidnappers take Peter to Lady Augusta (Constance Collier), who turns out to be Peter''s former nurse. Donovan''s employers succeed in overthrowing Gino (C. Henry Gordon) and installing their own reform government under the leadership of Stefan Bernaldo (Pedro de Cordoba). As time goes on, Donovan becomes very fond of Peter and vice versa, while Foster convinces Sonia he really does love her. However, that does not sway her from what she sees as her duty; she manages to send a message to Gino revealing where the king is being held. Peter and Donovan initially evade Gino''s men, but are recaptured within sight of the palace. Peter orders Gino to release Donovan unharmed, but Gino secretly has him imprisoned. Gino tells supporter Prince Edric (Lester Matthews) to start rumors that the new regime has killed the very popular king. Edric is aghast, grasping the implication that Gino intends to murder Peter. Sonia also realizes her mistake, and frees Donovan and Foster. With Foster''s help, Donovan kills or captures all 250 of Gino''s men just in time to save Peter from a firing squad. When Gino resists, Donovan shoots him. Later, a grateful Peter bestows a decoration on Donovan before they tearfully part.'
'drama, crime','Undercover FBI agent Jeff Crane (Chester Morris) is planted in the same prison as Sonny Black (Joseph Calleia), who is suspected of belonging to the notorious Purple Gang. Jeff helps Sonny escape in the hope that he will lead Jeff back to the rest of the gang. Sonny is seriously wounded during the escape, and makes his way to his home in central Wisconsin. He sends Jeff for Dr. Josiah Glass (Lionel Barrymore), an alcoholic who has saved the lives of many of the gang members. In his rush, Jeff forces a bus off the road during a late-night rainstorm. One of the passengers, Maria Theresa "Terry" O''Reilly (Jean Arthur), gets him to take the stranded people back to town. However, he refuses Terry''s persistent requests that he drive her to her destination, only a few miles away. Jeff finds Dr. Glass, but has to wait, as the storm has made a bridge impassible. During that time, he and Terry become acquainted. He learns that she is going to see her brother "Dinkie". She has not seen him in many years, and he has refused to respond to her letters about an inheritance from their uncle. Jeff is shocked when he sees a photograph of her brother: Dinkie is Sonny. Terry is unaware of Sonny''s criminal activity. When Jeff takes Dr. Glass to Sonny, Terry stows away in the car. She meets Sonny, and learns that he is the subject of a nationwide manhunt. However, family ties are strong, and she helps nurse him back to health. Later, when Sonny slaps Terry for persistently trying to persuade him to turn himself in, Jeff cannot control himself. He punches Sonny. Sonny angrily orders Jeff and Terry to leave, at gunpoint. Jeff''s boss, Special Agent James Duff (Paul Kelly), had warned Jeff not to get involved with Terry. The whole operation seems to be ruined, so Duff fires Jeff. However, Jeff has an idea. Knowing that the gang is planning to strike that day, he tricks Dr. Glass into taking him to their hideout, a roadhouse named Little Paree. He notifies Duff, and a fierce gunfight ensues. All of the gang members are killed except Sonny, who escapes. A dying Dr. Glass confirms that Sonny was the boss. Weeks go by, but Sonny eludes capture. A newspaper publishes photographs of Sonny and Jeff side by side—one captioned "Public Enemy No. 1", and the other "Public Hero No. 1". Duff and Jeff learn that Sonny has undergone plastic surgery. Knowing that he must be out of money, they have his sister watched at the vaudeville theater where she is the cashier. They also place an advertisement supposedly from Terry offering to help Dinkie. Sure enough, he approaches her for money and is spotted. Terry warns him, but he is gunned down in an alley by Jeff. Afterwards, Terry wants nothing to do with her brother''s killer. However, Jeff corners her on a train and they reconcile.'
'drama','"Red" Foster (George Murphy) and other reporters board an ocean liner arriving from Europe. Red has been sent to cover a seemingly routine suicide. Cassie (Jean Arthur), the ship''s manicurist, is homesick for America, but has somehow become a Greek citizen and not American. The captain (Thurston Hall) becomes aware of her plan to jump ship, and tells her she will be watched closely. She tells Red that she has a suicide note that reveals that man held by the police for a sensational murder is innocent and names the true killer. However, she will only give it to him if he marries her and makes her an American citizen again. He reluctantly agrees, and the captain marries them. Afterward, however, he learns that she has lied; the note is merely a letter of recommendation. Meanwhile, the other reporters learn that notorious gangster Tonelli (Douglass Dumbrille) is being brought back to the United States to face a number of charges. When they locate his cabin, they barge in on him and his police escorts. Then they are all forced at gunpoint by Tonelli''s henchman to help in his escape. The reporters do not mind, as they have a great front page story for their newspapers. All that is, except Red. Frentrup (Robert Middlemass), Red''s city editor, fires him for missing it. Neither Red nor Cassie have any money, so he lets her stay at his apartment. They find new jobs and save money for their divorce, though Cassie does her best to get Red to change his mind about splitting up. When Cassie reads about two dead gangsters who have been burned too badly to be identified, she hits upon a scheme to get Red his old job back. She telephones Frentrup and claims to be able to identify one as Tonelli by a tattoo mentioned in the newspaper, but insists on talking only to Red. Frentrup reinstates the reporter. However, Tonelli is still alive, and when he discovers that his girlfriend, Mimi (Shirley Grey), has quickly found herself another man, he guns them down in cold blood. Before he dies, the man is able to tell the police that Tonelli is responsible. Red gets fired again. Cassie is taken in to be interrogated on suspicion that she is Tonelli''s accomplice. The police allow Cassie to be released on bail, in the hope that she will lead them to the fugitive. Tonelli does indeed send for her. When he realizes the block is surrounded by policemen, Cassie persuades him to let her call her "brother" (actually Red) and have him bring "his" ambulance, so the gangster can try to sneak out on a stretcher. The plan works, except Cassie and Red take him not to a new hideout, but to Red''s newspaper. Trapped, Tonelli starts shooting and is killed by the police. In the middle of the gunfight, Frentrup once again rehires Red to write the unfolding story. At the divorce court, Red decides to stay married to Cassie.'
'action','Pilot Mitch Mitchell (Chester Morris) is asked to whisk a young child, Donny (Scotty Beckett), from California into Mexico by the youth''s mother, who is involved in a nasty custody dispute with her sister. Mitch agrees to take on the job, but he must also take along Maxine (Sally Eilers), who works for an agency hired to bring the child back. She''s agreed to help the boy escape, but the three must still avoid detection. Things come crashing to a head in Mexico.'
'action','After the horse Life Belt is disqualified for a drug violation, trainer Dan Morgan is suspended from horse racing. He goes to work in a lesser role for June and Jimmy Curtis at their stables and tends to Color Sergeant, an injured horse. A rival stable owner, Walker Hammond, is willing to go to any lengths to win. His men set fire to the Curtis stables, and when his horse Carnation scores a narrow victory over Color Sergeant in a big race, Morgan proves that Carnation is actually another horse, entered illegally. Hammond is now the one banned from the track.'
'western','The character, John Martin, is polite and genial. On a ride to the small town of Rainbow Valley, he runs into George, an "old-timer", who is looking for water for his car. Martin is surprised to see a car; he gives the old-timer his entire canteen of water. George, the mailman for the area, starts his car and heads down the road. Farther down, the road is being watched by highwaymen who have set up an ambush. Martin is riding on the same road and sees the highwaymen chasing George. Martin follows and takes on the highwaymen, but not before the last one shoots George. Martin leaps from his horse to the car. George is not killed; the bullet only grazed his skull. Martin hitches his horse to the back of the car and rides into town with George. Martin takes George to the town doctor. Meanwhile, the townspeople are rallying against the gang of highwaymen. The people of Paradise Valley are trying to build a road and modernize the town. They want to bring in "law and order" to the area, because they are tired of being abused and terrorized by the gang. They are putting together a petition to the governor of the state for legal and physical protection against the gang. Martin walks into the Post Office and claims he beat back the highwaymen. When Martin sees a suspicious character and asks him some questions, the man starts fighting with Martin. Some of the town''s elders watching the fight. Martin accuses the suspicious character of being one of the highwaymen. The elders say about Martin, "Say, that fellow''s a fighter! We need him around here!" The postmistress, Eleanor, thinks Martin is not a good guy, although it is obvious from his clothing and bearing that he is. George champions Martin''s character on account of his valiant struggle with the highwaymen. Meanwhile, the gang is sitting in the saloon, talking about how they messed up the ambush. They need to stop the road and keep the law out of the valley; they''re headed up by Rogers, a prominent man in town who got Eleanor her job. Martin figures out exactly what the gang is wanting to do—they want to send the prospectors out of business and then buy the prospectors'' land at a low price. The owner of the general store owner, Powell, thinks Martin is "the one man who won''t be intimidated by this gang", and he touts himself as an excellent judge of character and reckons that Martin measures up to his standards. Martin went to school for engineering, so he''s smart and capable of rebuilding the road. He''s a strategist who knows how the gang will work. He is magnetic and gets the people behind him. Meanwhile, the gang is strategizing on how to attack the road workers; the road workers pick up their weapons and start defending themselves against the gang. A shoot-out occurs; George uses dynamite to fend off the attackers. Martin returns to the Post Office, where Eleanor is friendly to Martin; she''s had a change of heart because of his friendliness, bravery, and hard work on the road. He is gentle and flirtatious but humble and virtuous. The highway gang is in the dark saloon, playing poker, smoking, and drinking. The gang plans to hide out along the road to kidnap George. They don''t hesitate to use physical violence, and they knock out a bystander and leave him along the road. The bystander revives and quickly rides to the road workers, where he tells Martin what happened. Martin immediately leaves and rides alone to save George. He skillfully tracks the gang to an old cabin, where he quickly sneaks into the barn and finds George tied up. George insists that they have to get the car out because it has mail in it; Martin disagrees but decides to help George. Mr. Rogers walks in the Post Office and leaves his wallet on the desk. The postmistress walks out with him, but he gets her to give him the key and runs back to the Post Office to steal the petition about the road. The gang substitutes a petition to release another gang member from his sentence for his crimes. They also revel in the fact that they stole all the remaining dynamite. Two weeks later, Martin and George wonder why they have not heard any response to the petition. In the gang hideout, Mr. Rogers walks in with the pardoned gang member (the boss, Butch), and the gang explains the situation to him. It happens that Martin and Butch were cellmates in jail. Butch wants to see Martin, so Mr. Rogers goes to find him. In the Post Office, Mr. Rogers tells the postmistress that Martin is an ex-convict. Martin rides into town; Rogers calls him over; the owner of the general store, Powell, sees the conversation. Martin seems happy to hear that Butch is in town. George sees Martin going into the saloon with Rogers; George goes into the Post Office, Powell follows, they assume Martin is fraternizing with Rogers and Butch. George has faith in Martin, but Powell and Eleanor assume the worst about him. Meanwhile, Martin is talking to Butch about the road; Martin appears to be on the same side as Butch, and he agrees to destroy the road in return for a cut of the profits when the prospectors sell out. The townspeople gather and talk about how Martin has betrayed them. Powell issues a call to arms to kill the entire gang. George and Eleanor find a letter to George from the governor. Martin is actually an undercover agent who is trying to bust out the gang, and the letter specifies that the townspeople should cooperate and comply with Martin''s "suspicious" activities without blowing his cover. George and Eleanor realize they have to stop the mob that has just left town to stop Martin and Butch. George hitches up a couple of horses to the car to pull it like a carriage. Meanwhile, the mob of townspeople is getting closer and closer to the gang and Martin. Suddenly, Martin punches out Rogers, and a shoot-out begins between the townspeople and the gang. Butch is hooking up the dynamite, but Martin stops him and they begin fighting. The gang starts retreating, but Butch sets off the dynamite right on top of the gang, killing all of his men. Martin arrests Butch and shows that he was using the gang to get through the road because they had stolen all of the dynamite. George drives the car up to the hill and remarks on the road''s success. Finally, the road is built, runs through the hill, and is all set up for the town. In the back seat of the car, Martin and Eleanor are kissing.'
'comedy','Rainmakers Billy (Wheeler) and Roscoe (Woolsey) take on a crooked businessman out to cash in on a drought.'
'drama, horror','After Jean Thatcher (Ware) has been injured in a car accident, her father, Judge Thatcher (Hinds) and beau Jerry (Matthews) implore retired surgeon Dr. Richard Vollin (Lugosi) to perform a delicate operation to restore her to health. Vollin agrees and is successful; he befriends the spirited and grateful Jean, in the process revealing his passion for all things related to Edgar Allan Poe, including his homemade collection of torture devices inspired by Poe''s works (such as a pit, pendulum with crescent razor, shrinking room, etc.), and identifying the raven as his talisman. After Vollin reveals his growing love for Jean to her father, the Judge quickly discourages him from the affair. Angered, Vollin hatches a plan when Edmond Bateman (Karloff), a murderer on the run, comes to his home asking for a new face so he may live in anonymity. Vollin admits to not being a plastic surgeon, but says he can help Bateman, and asks him to help in exacting revenge on the Thatchers, which he refuses. Bateman explains that he feels his antisocial behavior is a result of having been called ugly all his life, and he hopes a new face may gave him a chance to end it. Vollin performs the surgery, but instead turns Bateman into a disfigured monster, promising only to operate again on Bateman when Vollin''s revenge is exacted. Bateman finally reluctantly agrees. Vollin hosts a dinner party, among which Jean, Jerry, and the Judge are guests. One by one, the guests are caught in the Poe-inspired traps. Ultimately, Bateman is shot by Vollin as he rescues Jean and Jerry, but throws Vollin into the shrinking room where he perishes, and the guests escape.'
'comedy, musical','Musical stage star Mona Leslie (Jean Harlow), jailed for reckless driving, is bailed out by her friend, sports promoter and gambler Ned Riley (William Powell), to headline a charity event. However, she finds that all the seats have been bought by wealthy Bob Harrison Jr. (Franchot Tone), president and only member of S.A.M.L. (the Society for the Admiration of Mona Leslie). Mona begins dating Bob, with Ned''s approval. Mona''s Granny (May Robson) tells Ned that her granddaughter would break it off if he asked her to. Ned is reluctant at first, but eventually buys a wedding ring. However, he is too late. One night, while they are very drunk, Mona and Bob get married. The next day, Mona is pleased, but Bob becomes depressed when he considers what his upper class friends and family will think, especially his father, Colonel Harrison (Henry Stephenson), and his fiancée and friend since childhood, Jo Mercer (Rosalind Russell). Though Jo welcomes Mona without resentment, the colonel and the rest of Bob''s social circle are cold toward her. Bob wants to run back to New York, but Mona advises him to stay and stick it out. Bob''s ambivalent feelings emerge when Jo gets married. He avoids the wedding and starts drinking, unable to endure the thought of Jo with another man. When he shows up and speaks to Jo privately, he tells her how he really feels. Mona overhears when he says he was trapped into marriage. With no place else to go, she asks Ned to take her to his hotel suite. Bob follows and tries to pick a fight, but is too drunk to do anything serious. Ned and Mona put him to bed, but when they leave the room, Bob kills himself. Both Ned and Mona are subjected to a coroner''s inquest and suspected of murder, but Bob''s death is ruled a suicide. However, in the eyes of the public, Mona is still guilty of driving Bob to his death. Mona gives birth to Bob''s son. She offers to give up her inheritance of one million dollars if Colonel Harrison will agree not to seek custody of her child. He agrees. To support her son, Mona tries to go back to work, but outraged people organize a campaign against her and nobody will hire her other than a sleazy promoter who wants to take advantage of her notoriety. Ned secretly finances a show for her, but his lawyer, worried that Ned is risking bankruptcy, tells Mona. She offers to stop production, but Ned refuses to listen and the show goes on. On opening night, Jo and Colonel Harrison are in the audience. Mona starts off with a song, but hecklers make it impossible to continue. She quiets the crowd with a forceful justification of her actions and starts over. When she is finished, the audience gives her a standing ovation. During her next song, Ned proposes to her from the sideline.'
'drama','Drue Van Allen, the daughter of an American general, is in love with communist graduate student Leonard Arner. When Leonard is ejected from a college campus for speaking to the students, a newspaper photographer takes a picture of him in Drue''s car and prints it on the front page. When Drue refuses to listen to reason, the general tricks her into boarding an airplane bound for Mexico, supposedly to see her aunt Betty off, then locks her in. She is stuck in Juarez with no money to get home. After a rowdy soldier, Jeff overhears a border policeman warn her not to try to cross into the US, Jeff, whom she nicknames "Uncle Sam", strikes up a conversation, telling her he thinks she should be shot. Despite their disdain for each other, they run up a large bar bill, but neither has any money. They skip out and drive away; then Drue tells him he has stolen a government car. When they reach a border crossing, Jeff tries to stop, but Drue presses the gas pedal and they speed into Texas. They manage to evade their pursuers, but crash into a tree. They later kidnap P. J. Rooney, an easy-going, henpecked husband, to ride in his homemade trailer. He is glad to get away from his wife, Edith. They eventually con Baldy, a caretaker, into believing they are friends of his employer, Colonel Turner, and letting them stay in Turner''s house. After Jeff and Drue dance, he tells her he now loves her; after thinking it over, she kisses him before they turn in for the night, in separate rooms. She later sneaks out and tries to drive away, but the authorities show up and arrest them both. General Van Allen gets Drue out of jail. He is worried about a newspaper story reporting that Drue and Leonard are going to get married and also about information he received from an immigration official that Leonard is not a citizen, but rather a suspected "paid propagandist" in the country on a student visa. When the general realizes that Drue has feelings for Jeff, he sends for Jeff. After speaking to him informally, the general sends him down to a meeting at which Leonard is supposed to speak. Jeff pretends to have changed his opinion to get Arner to let him talk to the audience. He starts out agreeing with Leonard''s position, then shows people what he really stands for. A riot breaks out, and Arner is taken into custody for deportation. Drue realizes she is in love with Jeff. They get married and honeymoon in P.J.''s trailer.'
'comedy, mystery','To celebrate their six-month anniversary, Long Island socialites Tony and Carlotta Milburn arrange a wild drinking party with friends, culminating in a stop at the restaurant owned by Faronea. They are unaware that Faronea is conspiring with Baptiste Bouclier, the chauffeur of party host Vic Huling, to kidnap Vic. The next morning the Milburns awake hung over to find Vic dead from a gunshot through the heart and his wife Bette missing. Tony calls his friend, district attorney Danny Harrison to investigate. Bette arrives with Billy Arliss at whose home she had slept. Because of their excessive drinking, no one can remember anything about what had happened the night before. As circumstantial evidence mounts against Tony, he calls in hypnotist Professor Karl Jones to help everyone try to recover their memories. Just as the professor is about to reveal the murderer, he is murdered. Next to be killed is restaurateur Faronea. After Tony and Carlotta eavesdrop on him conferring with an accomplice at his restaurant, Faronea discovers them. Tony bluffs that he knows about the kidnapping plot and the accomplice murders Faronea. The couple returns home to find Bouclier murdered in his quarters. Friend Jake Whitridge responds to a frantic telephone call from Billy. Tony and Danny arrive, as they had planned with Billy, moments after Jake. Jake attacks Billy and knocks him out. When he regains consciousness Billy attempts to shoot Jake but Tony saves him. After the various spouses arrive, Tony announces he has solved the mystery. Billy borrowed money from Vic on behalf of Jake, using a false name. Jake altered the check to be for $150,000 instead of $50,000 and Vic forced Billy to reveal he had borrowed the money for Jake. Jake shot Vic at Jake''s home and brought his body to the party, where everyone assumed he was just passed out. Jake paid Bouclier to remain quiet, which is why Bouclier had to kill Professor Jones. Bouclier, Faronea''s accomplice, killed Faronea after Tony spoke to him about the kidnapping plot. Jake then shot Bouclier. Danny places Jake under arrest and extracts a pledge from Tony and Carlotta to quit drinking. They agree and drink a toast to it.[1]'
'comedy, drama','In April 1917, former newspaperman William Gordon (William Powell) is commissioned in the U.S. Army. The day before he is to leave Washington, D.C. for France, he meets socialite Joel Carter (Rosalind Russell) at an embassy gathering. The couple spend the day together where Gordon confides that because he once wrote a book on cryptography under a pen name, the army is searching for him to put him to work behind a desk, but he is eager to get into the fighting. Just before he boards his train, Gordon is ordered to report to Assistant Secretary of War John Carter (Samuel S. Hinds). Over his objections, Carter assigns Gordon to the code-breaking room to help break an intercepted German message that Major Brennan (Lionel Atwill), an experienced British cryptologist, has been unable to decipher. Gordon learns that Carter is Joel''s uncle, and that she revealed his true identity to keep him in Washington. The U.S. is deeply concerned about the U-boat threat to its troop and supply convoys headed to France. To defeat the threat, British escorts will meet American transports before they enter the most dangerous zone. The rendezvous point will not be given to the ships until the day before they meet, transmitted by wireless in a new code devised by Major Brennan. An ammunition ship is sent first to test the new system. However a German spy ring in the city has already gained access to the code and allows the ship through to lure more valuable troop transports into their U-boat trap. Gordon deciphers the intercepted message and realizing that the code has been compromised, alerts his superiors. A troop convoy has already sailed for France and in three days they will have to send it the rendezvous location in the no longer secret code. Brennan suspects his mistress, Olivia Karloff (Binnie Barnes), has stolen his code. He catches her red-handed, but she shoots and kills him in panic. Her unhappy superiors order her to divert the Americans away from the spy ring. Although he has a circular mailed to Olivia that contains a message written in invisible ink, and has her brought in for questioning, Gordon releases her to lead him to the rest of the spies. Joel mistakenly thinks he has been enchanted by her seductive wiles. Olivia covertly warns Captain Nicholas Nieterstein (Cesar Romero), an attaché in a foreign embassy who is part of the spy ring, that the Americans have the circular, which requires use of a reagent to reveal the message. Olivia is told that the spy ring is going to betray Nieterstein to dupe the Americans into transmitting the rendezvous location to the troop convoy. Dining later with Gordon, Olivia "accidentally" drops one of Nieterstein''s military medals in her possession into a glass of water, revealing the reagent and his complicity. The stolen code book is found in his possession, planted by his own compatriots, and he is arrested. Nieterstein commits suicide. Gordon forces Olivia to lead him to the spies in a hotel staffed by enemy agents. Joel jealousy follows them and becomes a hostage of the spies. Gordon is also captured and under duress pretends to decode the position message to the convoy. However he has given them coordinates of the hotel. When the spy ring passes along the information, the Americans intercept it, and Carter recognizes the address. Justice Department agents shoot their way into the hotel to rescue Gordon and Joel. Gordon resumes his journey to France, but as he is about to board his train, Joel again uses her influence to keep him in Washington.'
'musical','John Kent (Randolph Scott), a former star football player at Harvard, goes to Paris with his friend Huck Haines (Fred Astaire) and the latter''s dance band, the Wabash Indianians. Alexander Voyda (Luis Alberni) has booked the band, but refuses to let them play when he finds the musicians are not the Indians he expected, but merely from Indiana (Huck Haines and his Indianians Band). John turns to the only person he knows in Paris for help, his Aunt Minnie (Helen Westley), who owns the fashionable "Roberta" gown shop. While there, he meets her chief assistant (and secretly the head designer), Stephanie (Irene Dunne). John is quickly smitten with her. Meanwhile, Huck unexpectedly stumbles upon someone he knows very well. "Countess Scharwenka", a temperamental customer at Roberta''s, turns out to be his hometown sweetheart Lizzie Gatz (Ginger Rogers). She gets Huck''s band an engagement at the nightclub where she is a featured entertainer, and Huck agrees to keep her true identity a secret. Two things trouble John. One is Ladislaw (Victor Varconi), the handsome Russian deposed prince and doorman who seems too interested in Stephanie. The other is the memory of Sophie (Claire Dodd), the snobbish, conceited girlfriend he left behind after a quarrel over his lack of sophistication and polish. When Aunt Minnie dies unexpectedly without leaving a will, John inherits the shop. Knowing nothing about women''s fashion and aware that his aunt intended for Stephanie to inherit the business, he persuades Stephanie to remain as his partner. Correspondents flock to hear what a football player has to say about feminine fashions. Huck gives the answers, making a lot of weird statements about the innovations John is planning to introduce. Sophie arrives in Paris, attracted by John''s good fortune. She enters the shop, looking for a dress, but is dissatisfied with everything Stephanie shows her. Huck persuades her to choose a gown that John had ordered to be discarded as too vulgar. When John sees her in it, they quarrel for the final time. John reproaches Stephanie for selling Sophie the gown. Terribly hurt, Stephanie quits the shop. With Roberta''s putting on a fashion show in a week, Huck takes over the design work, with predictably bad results. When Stephanie sees his awful creations, she is persuaded to return to save Roberta''s reputation. The show is a triumph, helped by the entertainment provided by Huck, Countess Scharwenka, and the band. (A pre-stardom Lucille Ball, with platinum blond hair, appears uncredited in her first RKO film[3] as a model wearing an elaborate feather cape, after the vocal by Dunne, in the fashion show.[4]) The closing sensation is a gown modeled by Stephanie herself. At the show, John overhears that she and Ladislaw are leaving Paris and mistakenly assumes that they have married. Later, he congratulates her for becoming a princess. When she informs him that Ladislaw is merely her cousin and that the title has been hers since birth, the lovers are reunited. Huck and Lizzie, who decide to get married, do a final tap dance sequel.'
'western','Mining engineer Larry Sutton (Randolph Scott) arrives at the Ballard radium mine to take over as chief engineer from his missing brother-in-law Jack Parson, who is a suspect in the murder of ranch caretaker Adolph Borg. Sutton teams up with deputy sheriff Tex Murdock (Chic Sale) who is investigating the murder. Staying at the ranch with the ailing owner, Jim Ballard (George F. Marion), are his niece Flora (Kathleen Burke) and nephew Fritz (Howard Wilson) who''ve been notified of their uncle''s failing health now wait to inherit his legacy. Also staying at the ranch is a mysterious Chinaman Ling Yat (Willie Fung), the housekeeper Mrs. Borg (Leslie Carter), her son John (James Eagles), and the beautiful and spirited Rita Ballard (Ann Sheridan), another niece, who quickly earns Sutton''s trust and romantic interest. Shortly after Sutton arrives, Ballard''s nephew Fritz is murdered by a mysterious cloaked figure in the same manner that Adolph was killed—crushed beneath the massive weight of a stamp mill, a huge apparatus used to pulverize rock to unearth valuable ore. Sutton and Tex find that the ranch guests all have alibis. Soon the mysterious cloaked figure strikes again, shooting young John, attacking Sutton, and slashing Flora''s throat. While the investigation continues, Jim, who is apparently an invalid, takes a turn for the worse, prompting Sutton to contact his ex-wife who hasn''t been to the ranch in thirty years. Mrs. Ballard arrives at the ranch, Mrs. Borg tries to prevent her from seeing her ailing ex-husband. Sutton arrives and helps her upstairs where she discover that "Jim" is actually Adolph Borg, and that he and his wife had killed the real Jim Ballard sometime earlier during a takeover attempt by the Borg family. Adolph then tricks Sutton and escapes, taking Rita as a hostage. Sutton follows them to the mine where he fights with Adolph and John, nearly being crushed by the stamp mill. After Adolph falls to his death, Sutton rescues Rita. Afterwards, Mrs. Borg, her son John, and their Chinese servant Ling Yat are sentenced to twenty years in prison, and Tex is made sheriff. Larry and Rita get married and buy a ranch in Hawaii.'
'comedy, drama','Karel Novak (Lederer), an incredibly naive Czech immigrant, arrives in New York with $58; but now he must have $200 or be sent back. Novak escapes from the ship and is rescued by dock workers; but he loses his money. He wanders the streets and eats food left by chorus girls. Sylvia Dennis (Rogers) questions him. He refuses money but wants a job. Two women suggest an institution for Sylvia''s brother Frank (Jimmy Butler), because he missed two days of school. Sylvia says no. Sylvia gives Karel blankets to sleep on the roof, and she explains about the Depression. Frank shares his job selling newspapers with Karel and takes over after school. Karel does not admit he was fished out of the river and so does not get his $58 back. He asks the police officer Murphy (J. Farrell MacDonald) if someone could get in trouble for helping someone if they didn''t know he was an illegal alien. Karel shows Sylvia his taxi; but she says her show has closed. He is glad to be the head of the house for his friend. Karel comes home early because of a strike and helps Sylvia with the washing. She hopes to marry a rich man; but he kisses her. The two women ask the landlady if Novak is living in Sylvia''s apartment. Sylvia goes to court for Frank. The judge (Oscar Apfel) says she is 19 and asks about Novak, who explains the situation is innocent. The judge says Sylvia must give up Frank to an institution until she is married. Frank packs; Karel walks out, and Sylvia cries. Karel goes to Murphy and asks how to get married. Murphy says he only needs $2 and maybe his naturalization papers. So Karel goes to attorney Halsey J. Pander (Arthur Hohl), who asks for $50 and promises to make him a citizen right away. Karel goes back to drive a taxi even though he gets beat up because of the strike. Sylvia tells Karel that she and Frank are leaving. Karel asks her to marry him. Sylvia says no but changes her mind. A man comes to take Frank. Karel tells Sylvia he is in the country illegally but expects to be made a citizen. Karel is arrested, as Pander is turning him in for money. Murphy intervenes, and the police sergeant (Sidney Toler) makes calls to arrange a marriage license and to hire a minister (Donald Meek). Murphy arrests Pander for speeding and calls immigration. Karel is vaccinated at the police station, and he and Sylvia are married.'
'comedy','In 1908 the Earl of Burnstead (Roland Young) gambles away his eminently correct English manservant, Marmaduke Ruggles (Charles Laughton). Ruggles'' new masters, crude nouveau riche American millionaires Egbert and Effie Floud (Charlie Ruggles and Mary Boland), bring Ruggles back to Red Gap, Washington, a remote Western boomtown. When Ruggles is mistaken for a wealthy retired Englishman colonel, he becomes a celebrity in the small town. As Ruggles attempts to adjust to his rough new community, he learns to live life on his own terms, achieving a fulfilling independence as a result. In an easily missed bit of irony, Ruggles bemoans his fate as having been relegated to America, the "land of slavery," when it is obvious that Laughton''s character has been sold off as easily as a Negro in the Antebellum South. The climax of the film is Laughton’s recitation of the Gettysburg Address in a saloon filled with rough Western characters who are held spellbound by the speech. Newly imbued with the spirit of democracy and self-determination, Ruggles becomes his own man, giving up his previous employment and opening a restaurant in Red Gap.'
'musical','In Havana, Cuba, an American dancer called Joe Martin has a winning lottery ticket. However wealthy socialite Diana Harrison also has a lottery ticket with the same number. Joe''s ticket is counterfeit so he misses out on the money. Diana feels sorry for him and offers to back him in his own night club but then changes her mind after he tries to seduce her. Joe then discovers the rumba dance when he visits his home town during a fiesta. He gets financial backing from a Texan to establish a new nightclub with Flash, his manager. Joe dances the rumba with Carmelita and is a big success. Diana goes to opening night with her boyfriend Hobart Fletcher. She dances with Joe and they fall in love. However Carmelita helps break them up. Back in New York Diana discovers that Joe left New York because he had evidence that would send a gang member to prison. Diana breaks up with Hobart. Joe reads about this, signs with a Broadway producer and returns to New York. Joe is threatened with death by gangsters but decides to perform anyway. Carmelita faints out of fear but Diana steps up and performs the rumba with Joe. The performance is a big success and it''s revealed that the gangster threats was a publicity stunt.'
'western','Texas Rangers Gene Autry (Gene Autry) and Frog Millhouse (Smiley Burnette) are traveling undercover as western troubadours in search of the killer of old, half-blind Frank Martin. Their only clues are a guitar string (the murder weapon) and Martin''s horse Swayback that hold the key to finding the dead man''s lost goldmine. Following Frank Martin''s funeral, Martin''s granddaughter, Joan (Barbara Pepper), meets her uncle, John Martin, and Lon Dillon, who flirts with her. Lawyer Henry Nolan reads Martin''s will, revealing that the deceased left John $5,000 and the remainder of the estate to Joan. John tells Joan that he suspects Gene of her grandfather''s murder and persuades her to hold a masquerade dance to lure Gene into town. Meanwhile, Gene learns that Martin was nearly blind and relied on his horse Swayback to guide him. By following Swayback, whom Lon, John, and Henry have all tried to buy, Gene discovers that Martin had indeed located a gold mine. Gene and Frog escape a trap set for them at the dance and save Joan when she is nearly strangled by another guitar string. Then Gene discovers that John''s guitar is missing a string. John and Pablo, who have uncovered Swayback''s hiding place, find the mine and are followed by Henry, Lon, and Hank Polk. As they argue among themselves, Gene surprises them and reveals that he is a Texas Ranger assigned to the Martin murder case. By claiming that Frog is a fingerprint expert, Gene tricks Henry into admitting his guilt. Henry is then arrested by the sheriff, who is waiting in the mine according to Gene''s instructions. Finally, Joan learns that Gene has recorded the deed to the mine in her name.'
'comedy, drama','Anthony Mallare (Coward) is a publisher who (it appears) wishes to ruin the life of every person he comes in contact with. Every sentence he says is like a poisoned dart aimed for the greatest damage, and delivered in cold lifeless tones. He is under no illusion regarding his own personality, remarking to his staff at large that he has found the perfect woman - one as empty as he is: "I must marry her......it would be like two empty paper bags belaboring one another". He finally manages to completely destroy the career and life of an aspiring young author (Ridges) and his girlfriend (Haydon), who curses him with the hope that he will die friendless. Shortly afterwards he is killed when his plane crashes into the ocean—Haydon''s character, upon hearing of the tragedy, remarks, "I''ve just found out there IS a God!" Faced with the prospect of damnation he is allowed to go back to earth to find one person who will mourn for him - which person turns out to be Haydon. (Those around him are astonished to see him apparently alive and back at work, but gradually become aware that something supernatural is afoot.)'
'mystery','Sim Sturdevant visits his aunt Melissa Pilson. Pilson is upset about his affair with actress Trenna Plaice. Pilson thinks Plaice is a social inferior and only after money. Sturdevant says he plans to marry Plaice, and has secured a radio contract for her that will allow her to continue her acting career while living with him in New York. However, Plaice rejects Sturdevant''s proposal, saying she has a movie offer and marriage proposal from Len Hayworth. Sturdevant and Plaice argue until Plaice calls Hayworth to accept his proposal. Immediately after Sturdevant leaves, Plaice receives a call back from Lisa Bellwood, who claims she will be marrying Hayworth the next day. Sturdevant goes to a club, where he offers the radio contract to singer Johnny Johnson. Hayworth and Bellwood also come to the club, which upsets Johnson because Hayworth has made unwanted advances to her. Johnson''s boyfriend, press agent Reed Ryan, approaches Sturdevant''s table at the same time as Hayworth. Hayworth tells Ryan about Sturdevant''s failed proposal, and Sturdevant punches Hayworth in the face. Hearing a rumor that Hayworth wants revenge for his humiliation, Johnson follows Hayworth home from the club. At the same time, Plaice visits Hayworth''s home, where she is admitted by a butler who tells her he needs to go out, but she can wait for Hayworth inside. Bellwood brings home Hayworth, who has passed out drunk, and leaves him on a couch, not realizing that Plaice is in the next room. Soon after, Hayworth''s butler returns and finds him dead on the couch from a gunshot wound. The police suspect Plaice because she admits to being in Hayworth''s home. She also previously owned a pistol of the same type used in the murder, although she claims to no longer have it. Plaice tells Sturdevant she went to Hayworth''s to turn down his proposal, because she wants to marry Sturdevant instead. Hayworth''s butler calls claiming to know who committed the murder. When Plaice goes to meet the butler, he is killed by an unknown shooter, using the same type of gun that killed Hayworth. When Pilson visits Plaice and sees how distraught she is, Pilson decides she is innocent. Plaice believes the gun she used to own was stolen by her former butler, but Pilson finds the gun in Plaice''s apartment. Pilson removes the gun before police can find it. Pilson sets a trap by talking openly about having the gun. She claims to have located the butler who stole it and says he will be coming to testify about who he sold it to. The killer is revealed to be Ryan, who was jealous over Hayworth''s advances towards Johnson. As a collector of Hollywood memorabilia, Ryan had previously purchased the stolen gun from Plaice’s butler, and used it to divert suspicion.'
'adventure, fantasy','Leo Vincey (Randolph Scott) is called from America to the family''s ancestral estate in England where his dying uncle John Vincey (Samuel S. Hinds) and Horace Holly (Nigel Bruce) convince him that their ancestor, also named John Vincey (also played by Scott) found the fountain of youth 500 years ago. Following the route outlined in an old journal, Leo and Holly travel through frozen wastes, as a guide named Tugmore and his daughter, Tanya (Helen Mack) join them on their quest. They stumble upon the ancient city of Kor, where they are attacked by cannibals but are saved by She Who Must Be Obeyed (Helen Gahagan) and her Minister Billali (Gustav von Seyffertitz). She believes that Leo is the reincarnation of her lover, John Vincey and vows to make him immortal like herself to rule this Shangri-La in eternal youth. Tanya warns Leo that nothing human can live forever. At the end, She asks Leo to step into the Flame of Life with her, so that they can become immortal. When Leo hesitates, She offers to step in first. Rather than renewing her youth, She ages hundreds of years, becomes a withered mummy-like creature and dies. Leo, Holly and Tanya then safely make their escape. Gahagan''s depiction of the "ageless ice goddess"[4] served as inspiration for the Evil Queen in Walt Disney''s Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.[5][6]'
'comedy','The film tells the story of the wealthy family Van Dyke: a frustrated patriarch Dan (Walter Connolly); his self-centered wife (Billie Burke); and his spoiled children Tony (James Blakeley) and Carol (Joan Bennett). They have constant run-ins for outrageous behavior. Dan Van Dyke is sent to prison for tax evasion. His cellmate is bootlegger and fellow convicted tax evader Ricardi. The two men become friends and when Van Dyke dies from a poor heart, he puts Ricardi in charge of his interests.'
'comedy, drama','Julia Scott (Claudette Colbert) is a very efficient secretary at a department store. She is in love with her boss, Richard Barclay (Melvyn Douglas), who pays no attention to her, unless it has to do with business. Julia goes to lunch with Martha Pryor (Jean Dixon), who tells her she is offered a manager position of a department store in Paris. She turns it down, because of her love for Richard. Business forces Julia and Richard to work late at his house. Julia meets Richard''s sister, Gertrude, and his daughter, Annabel, who is a very spoiled, out of control child. Richard lets Julia take over the house for a couple of hours, in which she "straightens out" the household. Afterwards, she regrets all that she did at Richard''s house. She turns to Martha, who says she''ll take care of everything. Martha talks to Richard the next day, telling him that Julia is leaving and taking the job in Paris. Richard is very upset, and wants to know why. She struggles to come up with excuses, and they take the afternoon off, during which Richard and Julia are married. When Julia insists on being carried over the thresh-hold of his home. Gertrude is not happy, and insists the marriage will not last. The next day, Julia decides to stay home and attend to business there. The office is a complete disaster that day, in complete chaos. Meanwhile, Annabel has refused to eat anything while Julia is in the house, but Julia continues to outsmart and "befriends her, along with Rodgers, a prospective business partner. Gertrude continues to try and ruin the marriage. While Julia and Rodgers are working, Annabel enters, and they all start singing. Richard comes home and is very upset with Julia. He would rather have her helping him get the business deal with Rodgers. Julia decides to go down to Philadelphia and "get the Rodgers place in order." But after a while Annabelle wants Julia to come home, so Richard decides to go down to Philadelphia and bring his wife back. The night before he arrives, Julia and Rodgers drink heavily and spend the night in the store front window singing. Richard sees photos of the incident in the newspaper, and storms out of Julia''s hotel room after she insists he cares more about the store than about her. Julia feels the marriage is over, and makes plans for a cruise to Cuba and Panama with Rodgers. As she stops by home to pick up her things, Annabel begs her to stay. Richard, usually a teetotaller, has been getting drunk with his butler. When he finds out Julia is in the house, he confronts her drunkenly, then pretends to have a gun in his pocket and forces her into a car being driven by the intoxicated butler. The car careens through the city to a brickyard, where Richard picks up bricks, and then returns to the store. Both he and Julia throw bricks through the store window, laughing. As the police chase them, they rush to the pier, with the goal of departing on the cruise to Cuba together.'
'musical','Dick Melville (Powell) and June Blackburn (Keeler) meet during a naval review in New York Harbor. Though both come from Navy families, Dick aspires for a singing career and June, her father and brother both having been killed in the war, has vowed never to marry a Navy man. Admiral Melville (Stone), Dick''s father, is the new superintendent of the Naval Academy and his dearest wish is that his son follow in his footsteps as a naval officer. He maneuvers Dick into enrolling as a midshipman by accusing him of being afraid of failing the entrance exams. Though with no intent of accepting a commission, Dick passes the tests and enters the academy to be near Ruth, who teaches dance in Annapolis. Dick''s roommates are "Sparks" Brown (Alexander), a radio operator from the South; "Coxswain" Lawrence (Arledge), a sailor appointed from the fleet; and "Cowboy" Lincoln (Acuff), from the West. All of the plebes receive hazing from the upperclassmen, but Dick is a special target of teasing because of his father and his fame as a singer. Dick hates the academy and decides to leave until Ruth encourages him to finish what he started. Academically, he is at the head of his class, but he has made no friends. Dick sticks it out but the admiral worries about his isolation, as one of the goals of the academy is to create bonds between the midshipmen. Coxswain flunks out of school and castigates Dick for his attitude. After Ruth moves to New York to become a professional dancer, Dick is more alone than ever. June returns for the annual Ring Dance but Dick finds excuses not to allow her the tradition of placing his class ring on his finger. During Dick''s final summer cruise, Coxswain is one of the ship''s crew and proudly informs his former roommates that he has been accepted for readmission to the academy. His love of the Navy makes Dick uncomfortable and he places his ring on his finger one night on deck. During gunnery training, one of the ship''s steam lines bursts and starts a boiler fire. Coxswain tries to shut off the fuel leads and is overcome by smoke and fire. Although Dick tries to save him, Coxswain is killed. Both men are badly burned and Dick is recognized as the survivor by his class ring. When he finally returns to the academy, Dick is greeted enthusiastically by his classmates. He proudly leads the Brigade of Midshipmen at the graduation parade, about to become a new ensign.'
'mystery','A college student (Charles Starrett) discovers his roommate’s body hanging from a window and calls the police. What at first looks like suicide turns out to be murder. While a police investigation is ongoing, more students are killed.'
'western','At a St. Louis opera house in 1860, a singer in blackface named Jerry Barton, known as "King of the Minstrels", comes backstage and asks his sweetheart, Lettie Morgan (Ann Rutherford), to elope. Lettie''s Aunt Hortense, fearing that Barton is a fortune hunter, tells Lettie she is not the heiress she thought she was and that she has been living off her aunt''s charity. With no fortune to hunt, Barton informs Lettie that an artist cannot be burdened with the responsibility of a wife. Outside the opera house, Lettie meets a chorus girl named Honey (Barbara Pepper), who is preparing to leave with her theatrical troupe in a caravan heading West. When the troupe''s producer mistakes Lettie for the star, she joins the group as "Mary Varden". The troupe''s wagon train is escorted by Captain Tex Autry (Gene Autry) of the U.S. Cavalry and his singing plainsmen. The troupe misses the wagon train, however, and must travel alone. On their way to San Francisco, the caravan is ambushed by a gang of thieves. Tex and his men arrive on the scene and following a gunfight, the gang is chased off. After Tex saves Lettie from a runaway wagon, he comments on the foolishness of risking his men''s lives for a bunch of "crazy showgirls". Angered by his insolence, Lettie decides to walk rather than ride with Tex. Eventually she gets tired and asks Tex if she can ride with him. The troupe arrives safely at Fort Henry, which is run by Colonel Seward (Frank LaRue). An Indian named Young Deer warns Tex that Chief White Eagle is preparing to attack the army. When horses are stolen from the fort by a renegade named Buck LaCrosse (Warner Richmond), Tex saves the horses. Utah Joe (Allan Sears), who is in league with Chief White Eagle, falsely accuses Tex of complicity with the Indians, and Tex is soon arrested for treason. Aunt Hortense arrives with Judge Forsythe Lane (Niles Welch), who hopes to marry Lettie and use her money to run for president. Aunt Hortense encourages her to marry Lane. Lettie appeals to Lane on Tex''s behalf, hinting that she will marry him if he will save Tex. As the wagon train prepares to leave, Lettie sadly says goodbye to Tex, and Lane promises to join Lettie after the trial. However, Lane double-crosses Lettie and helps to secure Tex''s conviction. Following his conviction and death sentence, Tex escapes with the help of his friends. Suspicious that Utah Joe has promised to supply Chief White Eagle with ammunition, Tex orders his friend Frog (Smiley Burnette) to join the wagon train to spy on Utah Joe. While the caravan camps, Frog tells Lettie that Lane encouraged Tex''s conviction. Honey, who has fallen in love with Frog, tells Lettie that Lane was probably jealous of Lettie''s feelings for Tex, but Lettie denies loving the soldier. When Utah Joe announces plans to take a new route through Kern Valley, Frog warns that the valley is filled with renegades and unfriendly Indians. Later that night Tex arrives and overhears Utah Joe direct Chief White Eagle to the wagons stocked with gunpowder. Tex pulls his gun on them, and a fight ensues, during which LaCrosse arrives on the scene. As Frog and Tex try to fight off the renegades, the soldiers ride up. Chief White Eagle is shot during the scuffle, but Utah Joe escapes. LaCrosse is arrested and, under the threat of a firing squad, confesses that Utah Joe instigated the horse stealing at the fort, while he let loose the clever black stallion who opened the corral gate. LaCrosse also warns the caravan that Utah Joe is leading them into an ambush. As the caravan prepares to leave, Utah Joe, now dressed as an Indian, sends a smoke signal, and the Indians approach. Frog is grazed by a bullet and inadvertently becomes attached to the underside of the runaway powder wagon. Tex manages to save him, and igniting the wagon, sends it into a throng of Indians. The Indians retreat once the plainsmen arrive, and as the wagon train departs, Tex and Lettie kiss, with Honey nursing Frog behind the embracing couple.'
'drama, crime','Newspaper reporter Bill Bradford is deputized as a treasury agent by the Internal Revenue Bureau and assigned to find enough evidence to charge gangster Alexander Carston with tax evasion. He learns that Carston''s ledgers are kept in a code known only to his secretary, Julie Gardner. When she witnesses the murder of a man who double-crossed her boss, Bill begs her to quit her job, but Julie realizes she knows too much for Carston to let her go. District Attorney Roger Quinn pressures the murdered man''s partner into testifying, but Carston learns of the plan and the witness is murdered and Carston is acquitted. Julie is arrested as a material witness and decodes the books, but is kidnapped by Carston''s henchmen before she can testify. Bill tricks Carston into taking him where Julie is being held, and the police trail them. A shootout follows and Julie is rescued. Her testimony sends Carston to Alcatraz, and she accepts Bill''s marriage proposal.'
'comedy, mystery','New York lawyer and playboy Clay "Dal" Dalzell (William Powell) is asked by old friend Tim Winthrop (Leslie Fenton) to locate his girlfriend Alice, who mysteriously disappeared in Chicago a year ago. Winthrop cannot stop thinking about her and believes she is in New York. Along with Donna Mantin (Ginger Rogers), who has romantic designs on him, "Dal" attends a hit stage show called "Midnight" that stars a masked actress, Mary Smith (Bess Flowers), who vanishes in mid-performance when Winthrop recognizes her and blurts out the name Alice. Gossip columnist Tommy Tennant (Russell Hopton) claims to have discovered a vital clue to the mystery, but before he can reveal it, he is shot in Dal''s suite. Dal is the main suspect, but Inspector Doremus does not believe him to be guilty, and gives the resourceful lawyer the freedom to investigate on his own. Dal negotiates with gangster Kinland to retrieve letters embarrassing to Donna. When he gets them (using a bit of blackmail), he is annoyed to discover that they actually belong to a friend of Donna''s. Dal runs into an old flame, Jerry (Vivien Oakland), now wed to a lawyer named Classon (Ralph Morgan). Classon, it turns out, is also searching for Alice; she can provide an alibi for his client, convicted of a murder in Chicago. Dal sets up a trap in a Greenwich Village apartment, pretending to have located the missing Mary there and notifying each of the suspects that she is leaving there to meet him at his suite. He reasons that those who are innocent will go to his suite, while the murderer heads to the apartment to silence Mary. The killer indeed turns up, in disguise, putting Dal and Donna in grave danger. Fortunately, Dal and Inspector Doremus (J. Farrell MacDonald) are able to subdue the culprit. It is Robert Classon. It turns out that Jerry had carried on affairs, first with the Chicago murder victim, then with his accused killer. Robert Classon killed one of his wife''s lovers and tried to frame the other. To achieve the latter, he also needed to silence Alice, unaware that she had fled to avoid testifying. She hated the convicted man for ruining her father. With everything wrapped up, Dal finally gives in and marries Donna.'
'comedy','Broadway star Patricia Wallace (Evelyn Venable) quits her Broadway show to run off with wealthy Fred Arnold (Ralph Forbes). Her director Jimmy Hart (Victor Jory) follows them aboard a super-speed monorail, the Streamline Express. Meanwhile, also aboard is John Bradley (Clay Clement) and his mistress Elaine Vincent (Esther Ralston), but Bradley''s wife Mary (Erin O''Brien-Moore) ends up on the train as well. When Elaine gives her crooked pal Gilbert Landon (Sidney Blackmer) a diamond pendant given her by Bradley, in order to keep Landon quiet about her past, she pretends the pendant was stolen, in hopes of hiding the truth from Bradley. But Landon manages to throw suspicion on Jimmy Hart, who is masquerading as a steward. It takes confessions by several people to resolve everyone''s dilemmas.'
'musical','Bonnie Haydon (Ann Dvorak) is an aspiring star, who is often paired with Skip Houston (Rudy Vallée) by coincidence, much to her dismay. They taunt each other in a very screwball style, but overtime she learns that she has Houston to thank for her success.'
'comedy','Sylvia Scarlett (Katharine Hepburn) and her father, Henry (Edmund Gwenn), flee France one step ahead of the police. Henry, while employed as a bookkeeper for a lace factory, was discovered to be an embezzler. While on the channel ferry, they meet a "gentleman adventurer", Jimmy Monkley (Cary Grant), who partners with them in his con games.'
'drama','On the eve of the French Revolution, Lucie Manette (Elizabeth Allan) is informed that her father (Henry B. Walthall) is not dead, but has been a prisoner in the Bastille for many long years before finally being released. She travels to Paris to take her father to her home in England. Dr. Manette has been taken care of by a friend, Ernest Defarge (Mitchell Lewis), and his wife (Blanche Yurka). The old man''s mind has given way during his long ordeal, but Lucie''s tender care begins to restore his sanity. On the trip across the English Channel, Lucie meets Charles Darnay (Donald Woods), a French aristocrat who, unlike his unfeeling uncle, the Marquis de St. Evremonde (Basil Rathbone), is sympathetic to the plight of the downtrodden French masses. Darnay is framed for treason, but is saved by the cleverness of the dissolute lawyer Sydney Carton (Ronald Colman). Carton goes drinking with Barsad (Walter Catlett), the main prosecution witness, and tricks him into admitting that he lied. When Barsad is called to testify, he is horrified to discover that Carton is one of the defense attorneys and grudgingly allows that he might have been mistaken. Darnay is released. Carton is thanked by Lucie, who had been a witness at the trial. He quickly falls in love with her, but realizes it is hopeless. Lucie eventually marries Darnay, and they have a daughter. By this time, the Reign of Terror has engulfed France. The long-suffering commoners vent their fury on the aristocrats, condemning scores daily to Madame Guillotine. Darnay is tricked into returning to Paris and arrested. Dr. Manette pleads for mercy for his son-in-law, but Madame Defarge, seeking revenge against all the Evremondes, regardless of guilt or innocence, convinces the tribunal to sentence him to death with a letter Dr. Manette wrote exposing the guilt of Darnay''s uncle, Marquis de St. Evremonde. While trying to comfort the family, Carton knows that they are themselves in grave danger. When Lorry tries to convince him otherwise, Carton tells him that he is aware that Madame Defarge will stop at nothing just to get the vengeance she craves for. This is evident when Carton noticed her behavior in having the Vengeance give Lucie''s daughter a miniature guillotine during their trip at Defarge''s and which he confiscated. He comes up with a desperate rescue plan to stop her. He first persuades Lucie and her friends to leave Paris by promising to save Darnay. Next he confronts an old acquaintance, Barsad, now an influential man in the French government, to enable him to visit Darnay in jail. When he refuses to cooperate, Carton blackmails him into doing what he asks by threatening to reveal his secret about being a paid spy for the Marquis to the tribunal if he doesn''t allow him to see Darnay. There, Carton drugs the prisoner unconscious, switches places with him, and finishes the letter to Lucie to be put in his jacket pocket. Barsad and the guard has Darnay carried out to be reunited with his family. Madame Defarge, her thirst for vengeance still unsatisfied, goes to have Lucie and her daughter arrested, only to find that they have fled with Dr. Manette. When she finds out they''re gone after searching the rooms, Madame Defarge tries to flee. She is confronted by Miss Pross (Edna May Oliver), Lucie''s devoted servant who locks her inside in an attempt to prevent her from warning the populace. In the ensuing struggle, Madame Defarge is killed by Miss Pross. She clutches her ear and runs from the scene. Meanwhile, only a condemned seamstress (Isabel Jewell) notices Carton''s substitution, but keeps quiet. She draws comfort in his heroism as they ride in the same cart to the execution place. As the camera rises just before the blade falls, Carton''s voice is heard, saying, "It''s a far, far better thing I do than I have ever done. It''s a far, far better rest I go to than I have ever known."'
'western','Sheriff John Higgins quits and goes into prospecting after he thinks he has killed his best friend in shooting it out with robbers. He encounters his dead buddy''s daughter and helps her run Lazy End Ranch. Then she finds out about his past.'
'comedy, musical','Stranded in a small town in a downpour, the manager of a traveling musical show (Fred Allen) convinces the handlers of a boring long-winded local judge running for governor (Raymond Walburn) to hire his group to attract people to the politician''s rallies. When the show''s crooner, Eric Land (Dick Powell), upstages the judge, he''s fired, but on a return visit he saves the day by standing in for the judge, who is too drunk to speak. Impressed by his poise, the party''s bosses ask Eric to take over as candidate. The singer, knowing he has no chance to win, agrees for the exposure and the radio airtime in which he can showcase his singing. Soon, though, his girlfriend Sally (Ann Dvorak) becomes annoyed at the amount of time Eric is spending with the wife of one of the bosses, and she leaves when she thinks he has lied to her. When the bosses ask Eric to agree to patronage appointments that will lead to easy graft for all of them, he exposes them on the radio, telling the voters that voting for him would be a huge mistake and urging them to vote for his opponent. At the end Eric is, of course, elected governor, then reunited with Sally.'
'adventure, action','Callow youth d''Artagnan (Walter Abel) sets off from Gascony for Paris, armed with his father''s sword, an old horse and a letter of introduction to his godfather, Captain de Treville (Lumsden Hare), commander of the King''s Musketeers. Along the way, he attempts to rescue Milady de Winter (Margot Grahame) from highwaymen, but it turns out she came to meet their leader, the Count de Rochefort (Ian Keith). When Rochefort insults d''Artagnan, the latter insists on a duel. Instead, Rochefort has his men knock out d''Artagnan, while he blackmails Lady de Winter into helping him in his plot to seize power. Upon reaching Paris, d''Artagnan is dismayed to learn from de Treville that he must serve two years as a cadet or perform "extraordinary deeds of valor" before he can become a Musketeer. Then he spots Rochefort on the street. In his haste to confront his enemy, d''Artagnan unintentionally insults three Musketeers: Athos (Paul Lukas), Porthos (Moroni Olsen), and Aramis (Onslow Stevens) in turn, agreeing each time to a duel. When his opponents arrive at the appointed place, they are amused to discover they are all engaged to cross swords with the same man. However, Cardinal Richelieu''s Guards try to arrest the Musketeers for dueling. D''Artagnan joins the outnumbered trio and acquits himself well. His three new friends secure him free lodging by threatening landlord Bernajou (Murray Kinnell) with an imaginary law and find him a servant named Planchet (John Qualen). That night, d''Artagnan is pleasantly surprised when Bernajou''s ward Constance (Heather Angel) enters the room. It turns out that it is actually her chamber, though she is rarely there, as she spends most of her time at the palace as lady-in-waiting to the Queen. Constance has arranged a rendezvous between Queen Anne (Rosamond Pinchot) and her lover, the English Duke of Buckingham (Ralph Forbes). Buckingham threatens to wage war to obtain Anne, but she dissuades him by appealing to his love; she gives him her diamonds as a pledge for peace. Bernajou, lusting for Constance and suspicious of her meeting a lover,[2] has hidden in an armoire and witnesses their meeting. He is arrested and reveals the details to Rochefort, who is in league with Richelieu to bring about the Queen''s downfall and thus thwart Buckingham. Rochefort lies to Richelieu that the Queen gave her diamonds to start a war between France and England, and they arrange it so that she must appear wearing the diamonds at the King''s anniversary ball eight days hence. When d''Artagnan finds out from Constance the Queen''s danger, he decides to ride to England and retrieve the jewelry. De Treville assigns him help: Athos, Porthos, and Aramis. Alerted by Bernajou, Rochefort sends his men to attack them along the way. One by one, the others remain behind to hold off their enemies, and only d''Artagnan reaches Calais, where he discovers that Lady de Winter has killed Buckingham''s valet and stolen the diamonds. She is not fooled by his attempt to gain her confidence and has her men tie him up and throw him in her carriage. She stops at an inn on her journey back to Paris; by chance it is where the Musketeers had agreed to rendezvous. They free d''Artagnan and take Lady de Winter prisoner, after which Athos reveals that the murderess is his wife. At Athos''s ancestral home, where Constance is waiting, Lady de Winter throws herself into the river. At the ball, d''Artagnan unmasks Rochefort as a traitor, producing a secret treaty taken from Lady de Winter and offered by Rochefort to Buckingham in which the King and Richelieu would be assassinated. Hearing that d''Artagnan is just a cadet, the King immediately makes him a Musketeer.'
'crime','Torok, a police captain in Budapest, is pleased when his friend, Count Peter Alvinczy, is elected to the presidency of the government''s cabinet. Alvinczy is married to Madalaine, whose first husband, Paul Szegedy, long believed to be dead, turns up and threatens to publicly embarrass Alvinczy by revealing his wife to be already married. Szegedy''s mistress and partner in a theatrical act, Katherine Szabo, tries in vain to change his mind, even telling Torok at the police precinct what is occurring. He goes through with the scheme to blackmail Madalaine and is soon found dead by Torok, shot through the heart on the street. Madelaine becomes the prime suspect in Torok''s investigation and is placed under arrest. Her husband confesses to the murder, trying to protect her. Torok, however, deduces that Katherine, a sharpshooter in their performing act, picked up a gun in the police station when no one was looking and, through a window, shot her lover. Found out, Katherine kills herself. Torok then releases Madalaine, promising to keep her secret and protect his friend.'
'comedy, musical','An American dancer, Jerry Travers (Fred Astaire) comes to London to star in a show produced by the bumbling Horace Hardwick (Edward Everett Horton). While practicing a tap dance routine in his hotel bedroom, he awakens Dale Tremont (Ginger Rogers) on the floor below. She storms upstairs to complain, whereupon Jerry falls hopelessly in love with her and proceeds to pursue her all over London. Dale mistakes Jerry for Horace, who is married to her friend Madge (Helen Broderick). Following the success of Jerry''s opening night in London, Jerry follows Dale to Venice, where she is visiting Madge and modelling/promoting the gowns created by Alberto Beddini (Erik Rhodes), a dandified Italian fashion designer with a penchant for malapropisms. Jerry proposes to Dale, who, while still believing that Jerry is Horace, is disgusted that her friend''s husband could behave in such a manner and agrees instead to marry Alberto. Fortunately, Bates (Eric Blore), Horace''s meddling English valet, disguises himself as a priest and conducts the ceremony; Horace had sent Bates to keep tabs on Dale. On a trip in a gondola, Jerry manages to convince Dale and they return to the hotel where the previous confusion is rapidly cleared up. The reconciled couple dance off into the Venetian sunset, to the tune of "The Piccolino".[9]'
'comedy','Angela Twitchell (Joan Blondell) daughter of Rufus Twitchell (Grant Mitchell) the founder of Twitchell''s Toothpaste wants to work for her father''s New York company. But her father is convinced that women have no place in the business. Rufus is losing sales to rival company own by Schmidts (Al Shean). But Rufus is too stubborn to listen to any new ideas or mount a new advertising campaign. Angela tries to help her father by bringing an idea for a cocktail flavored toothpaste and when he refuses to listen, she takes the idea to Schmidt. Schmidt loves the idea and hires her under an assumed name to sell the product. Angela first customer Claudette (Glenda Farrell) the head of a chain of pharmacy is committed to Twitchell''s company, because she is in love with the company''s salesman Pat O''Connor (William Gargan). On the road, Angela plans to outsell Pat. When she suspects that pat is taking an early train in order to make a sale on board the train, she boards the train and beats him to the customer. However, Pat and Angela falls in love, but Pat still does not know Angela''s true identity. Back in New York, Pat and Rufus plan their strategy for the upcoming Chicago pharmacy''s convention, but once again, Angela uses every tactic to steal sales away from Twitchell''s company. Pat accuses her of unethical behavior and refuses to see her again. Rufus and Schmidt discuss a merger, but plans are stalled until Angela reminds them that she owns the rights to Cocktail Toothpaste and will only turn them over to a merged company. late, Angela makes up with Pat.'
'musical','Crosby is cast as Gilbert, one of three half-brothers, Gilbert, Buster and Pooch, sons of the much-married. debt-ridden, widow Mrs. Smythe. While the broker''s men are removing the furniture he sings a song he has composed ''Takes Two to Make a Bargain'' (including parody lines, ''Did you ever see a piano walking'' and ''Pianni doesn''t live here anymore''). In an endeavor to sell the song to Alexander Myers, a song publisher, Gilbert hides in a tree beneath which Myers is resting. Gilbert is unaware that the publisher is completely deaf and, to add to his troubles, when he starts singing a plane circles above and then crashes into the tree. He is injured but after a few days, whilst pushing him in an invalid chair, his mother tells him that she has sued the pilot who is to pay 50,000 dollars compensation for preventing Gilbert from completing his musical play. He protests that he never had any play and they then encounter the pilot, Bobbie, who says she will pay the money at 15 dollars per week from her salary as secretary to Harry Kling the theatrical producer. Bobbie arranges an appointment for Gilbert to see Kling who, when they arrive, is having trouble finding a suitable play for his actress girlfriend Lilly. Gilbert tries to explain to him the details of the accident but Kling thinks he is outlining a play and tells him to have it finished by the time Kling returns from Paris in seven days. With a group of actors Gilbert takes over Kling''s Long Island estate to write a musical play called ''Two for Tonight''. He sings ''From the Top of Your Head'' to Bobbie but running out of ideas for the play is advised by Homps, the butler, to ''go out and meet life'' to get material for the second act. Homps is an ex-theatrical producer from Budapest who is waiting for money that will come to him on the death of his Uncle Ludwig. To follow Homps'' suggestion, Bobbie tries to persuade Gilbert to take her to dinner but Lilly intervenes and after he sings ''Without a Word of Warning'' to Bobbie, Lilly takes him to the Purple Cafe. He becomes impatient with waiting for something to happen which can be introduced into his play and, after tripping up a waiter, rings the police and tells them to come to the Purple Cafe. They mistake him for a crazy fellow, Benny the Goof, who Gilbert meets at the cafe and together they start a battle with soda-water syphons which eventually involves everyone, including the police, in a riot. Gilbert lands in jail where Bobbie visits him and is serenaded with ''I Wish I Were Aladdin'' by Gilbert and a chorus of prisoners. Released from his cell, Gilbert resumes rehearsal and a love scene with Lilly is misinterpreted by Bobbie and Kling arriving from Europe. Bobbie walks out and Kling says that the play is off. Homps, however, now reveals that his uncle has died, he has inherited the money and that he will finance and produce the play. Gilbert pursues Bobbie, declares his devotion and, after he reprises ''Without a Word of Warning'' she returns for a happy ending. Homps and Mrs. Smythe are arm-in-arm and she seems destined for yet another marriage. [2]'
'western','Gene Autry (Gene Autry) returns to his home after a five-year absence as a singing cowboy with a group of strolling players that includes Smiley (Smiley Burnette) and Eightball (Eugene Jackson), who sell Dr. Parker''s Painless Panacea. Gene''s father, a cattle barron and one of the original "nesters" in the West, was recently murdered during a conflict with his landlord. While at an abandoned nester''s cabin, the group is held up by Harry Brooks (Cornelius Keefe), whom Gene recognizes as his old friend. Wounded and semi-delirious, Harry induces Gene to hide him from the posse headed by Sheriff Manley (George Burton). The deputy later returns and tries to shoot Harry, but Gene chases him away. In town, the deputy reports to Barney Craven (Edward Hearn), leader of a gang which is trying to silence Harry. Meanwhile, Gene and his friends set up a performance in town, but it is interrupted by Craven''s men, who report that Harry is wanted for the murder of Gene''s father. Hastening to Harry''s home, Gene confronts his former sweetheart Janet, now Harry''s wife, and meets Janet''s younger sister Jerry (Lucile Browne), whom he had only known as a girl. They assure Gene of Harry''s innocence and reveal that Harry and Gene''s father were about to sign a settlement over disputed water rights. Now suspicious of Craven, Gene captures Craven, the deputy, and their cohorts by a series of clever ruses that land them in jail, and thereby vindicates Harry. Gene and Jerry marry and join Smiley and Eightball on the departing Parker wagon.[2]'
'comedy','Irresponsible, happy-go-lucky Tony Spear returns home to the United States and his family after years of sailing throughout the Orient with his crewman Corky Nye. His wealthy department store owner father R. D. Spear and brother John are fearful of what damage he will do to their reputations as staid, respected businessmen, remembering what happened the last time. John has some news for his brother; he has just proposed marriage to Jo Spiggins, who grew up with them both and is now a valued and trusted store employee. Tony is delighted, at first. When John has to go away on a business trip, he asks Tony to use his influence to persuade Jo to accept his proposal. Jo''s father "Spiggy" Spiggins, a store manager and classmate of R. D.''s, does not think John is a good match for his daughter, preferring Tony as a son-in-law. When he sees how much happier she is after she goes out with Tony, he tries to get Tony to marry Jo himself, but the young man is not interested in matrimony and views Jo more as a sister. As time goes on, however, he begins to come around to Spiggins'' viewpoint. Jo warms to him too, until they go to a diving exhibition. First, she does not like it when Tony invites two female friends and their dates to their table. Then Tony gets drunk and dives off the board himself while dressed in formal evening clothes. After that, she stalks off. When Tony runs after her, some men try to restrain him; he starts a fight and is jailed. Jo then accepts John''s proposal. Spiggins tries to sabotage the wedding by getting drunk and hiding out on Tony''s sailboat, the Vagabond Lady, figuring if he is not there to give his daughter away, they cannot proceed. Jo tracks him down and assumes (as Spiggins had plotted) that it is Tony who is trying to derail the ceremony. Despite their mutual hostility toward each other, Tony offers to sail her to the wedding in Westport, giving them enough time to get her father sober. On the way, Tony tells Corky to throw him overboard if he so much as touches Jo. When Corky gets drunk (with Spiggins) and a storm comes up, Tony has to get Jo to help him sail the boat. They quarrel, but it ends with him kissing her. A drunk Corky sees this, and after Jo goes below, he sneaks up behind Tony and kicks him off the boat. The next morning, Corky has only a hazy memory of what happened, but tells Jo that Tony has a habit of leaving him to deal with women he abandoned. Jo believes him and decides goes through with the wedding. However, Tony (having hijacked a fishing boat that picked him up) manages to get there just in time to persuade his brother that Jo would not be respectable enough for his career and reputation. Tony then drags a delighted Jo away.'
'drama','The story centers upon a starving, impoverished gamin who lost everything after a wicked millionaire tricked her into a marriage and impregnated her. The baby doesn''t survive the ordeal and the poor girl ends up sheltered by a puritanical farm family. While there, she falls in love with the son.[1]'
'drama','New York novelist Tony Barrett (Gary Cooper) and his wife Dora (Helen Vinson) have accumulated serious debts as a result of their fast and affluent lifestyle in the big city. When Tony approaches his publisher expecting an advance on his newest novel, he is told that success has gone to his head and the novel is unpublishable. With few options available, Tony and Dora move to his family''s run-down farm in Connecticut, where they meet his neighbors: a Polish farmer, Jan Novak (Sig Ruman), and his beautiful daughter, Manya (Anna Sten). Looking to expand his own property, Mr. Novak offers Tony $5,000 for a field bordering the Novak farm, and the author eagerly accepts. With their finances replenished, Dora returns to New York, leaving Tony at the farm, where he intends to write a new novel inspired by the Novaks and their friends. Sometime later, Tony and Manya are at his house discussing her betrothal to Fredrik (Ralph Bellamy), the young man chosen by her father to be her husband. A drunken Tony tells Manya that she is not in love with the young man, and makes suggestive remarks that anger her. The following day, Tony apologizes to Manya and the two begin a close friendship. After Tony''s servant leaves to return to New York, Manya begins spending more time at Tony''s farm and the two fall in love, just like the characters in his new novel, Stephen and Sonya. Fredrik soon learns that Manya has been seeing Tony at his farm, and he and her father forbid her from seeing Tony again. Ignoring their orders, Manya continues to spend time with the novelist at his house. One evening, a snow storm prevents Manya from returning home. The next morning, Mr. Novak angrily confronts Tony at his farm. Later, he demands that Manya marry Fredrik the following Monday. When Manya tells him that she will not spend her life being an unpaid servant like her mother, Novak slaps her. Later that day, Dora arrives back at the farm, telling her husband that she missed him terribly during their separation. Dora hears stories about the previous night, and hopes that they mean nothing. When she reads his new manuscript, however, she suspects that the love affair between the characters of Stephen and Sonya reflect her husband''s own feelings for Manya. On the night before her wedding, Manya goes to see Tony, but finds Dora instead. The two speak about Tony''s new novel and how it will end—both realizing that they are really speaking about their own lives. Dora tells Manya that she is sure that Stephen''s wife will not give up her husband, but that she would feel sorry for Sonya. Manya tells her about the upcoming wedding, and then leaves. When Tony returns home, he asks Dora for a divorce, but she refuses, telling him that his novel should end with Sonya marrying her Polish fiancé. The next day, after learning that Manya and Fredrik are getting married, Tony goes to the wedding party and dances with Manya. Later, a drunken Fredrik, angered by his fiancé''s lack of passion and interest on their wedding night, storms out of their bedroom and goes to Tony''s house to confront the man he suspects is to blame. Manya follows him to Tony''s house, where she attempts to stop Fredrik from fighting with Tony on the stairs. During the struggle, Manya falls down the stairs and is seriously injured. Tony carries her to the parlor, where he tells her he loves her, just before she dies. Later, Dora tells Tony that he can now see Manya privately. Gazing out the window, Tony tells her about how full of life Manya was and imagines that she is waving to him.'
'comedy','Elmdale''s chamber of commerce is all but broke. A decision is made to spend what remains of the budget on a reunion that hopefully will entice one of America''s wealthiest men, Andrew Anstruther, to return to the place of his birth and build a new factory there. Con men get wind of it. Dickie Foster, a gambler, is one. He and his partners, a fake bond salesman, Giltedge, and a gold-tooth-stealing dentist called Painless, have already taken the town for $10,000 in bogus bonds. "Gorgeous," his girlfriend, believes in Dickie, but when he goes to Elmdale, he becomes smitten with local girl Susan Adams. Anstruther takes a liking to Dickie, but Giltedge bilks the millionaire out of $36,000 for worthless bonds. Dickie bets on a horse for Susan''s sake to win the money back, but the horse loses. The crooks are charged with murder after Anstruther vanishes, but he turns up just in time to vouch for Dickie as a friend. After he learns Susan has a boyfriend, Dickie goes back to the arms of Gorgeous, who tells him, "Welcome home."'
'comedy','Ginger Stewart (Joan Blondell) and Dixie Tilton (Glenda Farrell) are offered $1000 by ditsy lawyer Homer Bronson (Hugh Herbert) to serve subpoenas on reluctant witnesses for a breach of promise lawsuit brought by Claire LeClaire against wealthy C. Richard Courtney (Ross Alexander). They have a deadline, as a new state law will take effect in a few weeks banning such suits. Unbeknownst to Ginger, she already knows the defendant; she and Courtney, masquerading as a chauffeur named Carter, have fallen in love. Courtney himself does not know that Ginger is a process server. Through trickery, Ginger and Dixie manage to serve papers on three of their wary targets: nightclub singer Phil Logan (Phil Regan), gangster ''Butch'' Gonzola, and professional wrestler Man Mountain Dean, the last in the middle of a bout with Chief Pontiac. Courtney, on the advice of his lawyer, Stephen Dinsmore (Henry O''Neill), prepares to sail away to safety on his yacht. However, Ginger jumps out of a motorboat piloted by the erratic Bronson and pretends to be in distress. She is rescued by Courtney''s crewmen. She and Courtney finally learn each other''s true identity, but eventually admit they love each other and decide to get married. Ginger sends a message to Dixie, asking her to bring a few things she will need for the honeymoon. However, Dixie assumes her partner is merely luring Courtney in, and when the couple set foot on the dock, Dixie serves the last subpoena. Courtney also assumes Ginger was merely acting and angrily breaks up with her. At the trial, Bronson produces a photograph showing LeClaire cosily nestled in Courtney''s lap. Courtney agrees to marry LeClaire. Later, however, Bronson confides to Ginger and Dixie that he faked the picture by combining two others. Ginger rushes over and stops the wedding ceremony just in time. She and Courtney then reconcile.'
'horror, sci-fi','Wilfred Glendon (Henry Hull) is a wealthy and world-renowned English botanist who journeys to Tibet in search of the elusive mariphasa plant. While there, he is attacked and bitten by a creature later revealed to be a werewolf, although he succeeds in acquiring a specimen of the mariphasa. Once back home in London he is approached by a fellow botanist, Dr. Yogami (Warner Oland), who claims to have met him in Tibet while also seeking the mariphasa. Yogami warns Glendon that the bite of a werewolf would cause him to become a werewolf as well, adding that the mariphasa is a temporary antidote for the disease. Glendon does not believe the mysterious Yogami. That is, not until he begins to experience the first pangs of lycanthropy, first when his hand grows fur beneath the rays of his moon lamp (which he is using in an effort to entice the mariphasa to bloom), and later that night during the first full moon. The first time, Glendon is able to use a blossom from the mariphasa to stop his transformation. His wife Lisa (Valerie Hobson) is away at her aunt Ettie''s party with her friend, former childhood sweetheart Paul Ames (Lester Matthews), allowing the swiftly transforming Glendon to make his way unhindered to his at-home laboratory, in the hopes of acquiring the mariphasa''s flowers to quell his lycanthropy a second time. Unfortunately Dr. Yogami, who is also a werewolf, sneaks into the lab ahead of his rival and steals the only two blossoms. As the third has not bloomed, Glendon is out of luck. Driven by an instinctive desire to hunt and kill, he dons his hat and coat and ventures out into the dark city, killing an innocent girl. Burdened by remorse, Glendon begins neglecting Lisa (more so than usual), and makes numerous futile attempts to lock himself up far away from home, including renting a room at an inn. However, whenever he transforms into the werewolf he escapes and kills again. After a time, the third blossom of the mariphasa finally blooms, but much to Glendon''s horror, it is stolen by Yogami, sneaking into the lab while Glendon''s back is turned. Catching Yogami in the act, Glendon finally realizes that Yogami was the werewolf that attacked him in Tibet. After turning into the werewolf yet again and slaying Yogami, Glendon goes to the house in search of Lisa, for the werewolf instinctively seeks to destroy that which it loves the most. After attacking Paul on the front lawn of Glendon Manor, but not killing him, Glendon breaks into the house and corners Lisa on the staircase and is about to move in for the kill when Paul''s uncle, Col. Sir Thomas Forsythe (Lawrence Grant) of Scotland Yard, arriving with several police officers in tow, shoots Glendon once. As he lies dying at the bottom of the stairs, Glendon, still in werewolf form, speaks: first to thank Col. Forsythe for the merciful bullet, then saying goodbye to Lisa, apologizing that he could not have made her happier. Glendon then dies, reverting to his human form in death.'
'drama','At Randolph Field, Texas, Master Sergeant "Big Mike" Stone (Wallace Beery) has aspirations for his son, "Little Mike" (Robert Young) to follow in his footsteps as an aviator. Following graduation from West Point, Little Mike, along with his best friend, Phil Carter (Russell Hardie), enter pilot training at Randolph Field, commanded by Phil''s father, General Carter (Lewis Stone), but complications soon arise. Little Mike has a childhood sweetheart, Phil''s sister, "Skip" (Maureen O''Sullivan) but is also being pursued by divorcee Dare Marshall (Rosalind Russell). Returning from a late date with Dare the next morning, Little Mike''s car causes Phil to crash during his solo flight, which ends with Phil losing a leg. Seeing what may happen after a crash, General Carter orders all the flying cadets into the air so they won''t lose their nerve. Little Mike, blaming himself for his friend''s accident, loses control during a flight check while landing in a cross-wind, destroying his landing gear and causing another aircraft flown by his friend "Jasky" Jaskarelli (Robert Taylor) to crash in flames. Big Mike takes to the sky to bring his son back safely but strikes him when Little Mike breaks down in hysterics. Big Mike is court-martialed and dishonorably discharged from the service. Having lost his nerve and planning to resign from the army, Little Mike comes upon his father, now a drunk and toiling as a mechanic. Trying to help his son once again, Big Mike takes his place on a flare dropping mission flying his own aircraft, a beat up old war surplus airplane. The plane breaks up under the stress of a diving maneuver. Big Mike crashes into the water, and his son comes to his aid in a daring underwater rescue and proves his mettle. The Secretary of War recognizes both men''s valor, reinstates Big Mike to his former rank, and allows Little Mike to graduate. Dare disapproves of Little Mike staying in the army, but he rejects her, realizing that Skip is his true love.'
'western','John Wyatt (John Wayne) vows to avenge the death of his parents at the hands of cattle rustlers. Years later, Wyatt is put in charge of a band of vigilantes, bent on rounding up a gang of outlaws. He discovers that one of the bandits is his own long-lost brother Jim Wyatt (Frank McGlynn Jr.) This revelation eventually leads John to the men responsible for the slaughter of his family.[2]'
'comedy, drama','Thieves Ed Dexter and Harry Ames are trying to steal some valuable pearls. When Ed discovers another gang, led by "Doc" Evans, has the same idea, he tips off the police to get rid of the competition. Then Ed and Harry get what they were after. When the authorities connect Vivian to the robbery (she had worked with Ed and Harry in the past, but not on this theft), government agent Ross McBride is assigned to get Vivian to lead him to her partners by pretending to be a crook named Danny Ackerman. However, Vivian quickly realizes Ross is a plant. Nonetheless, she plays along, as the other bunch of crooks is following her. Meanwhile, Ed has hidden the pearls in the handle of Vivian''s hand mirror without her knowledge. On their travels, Ross and Vivian stop at a farmhouse, where they help the distraught Dabsons with the birth of twins. Ross and Vivian gradually fall in love with each other. When he overhears her phoning Ed to tell him she is quitting her life of crime, he is at a loss what to do, "whipsawed" as he calls it. He confesses to her that he is government agent; she reveals that she already knows. He then embraces her, but drops the mirror he was holding, revealing the pearls. He does not believe her protestations of innocence. Evans and his gang find Ed and Harry and force the story out of them at gunpoint. Then Evans, his associate Steve and Ed go to pick up the loot. Hearing the ruckus, Ross manages to toss the pearls out the window just before they break into the bedroom where he and Vivian are staying (pretending to be a newly married couple, but sleeping in separate beds). Vivian tells them that she found the pearls, and her "husband" claims he hid them in St. Louis. They set out for the city; Ross manages to take along his gun undetected. Ross suggests they stop at a roadside cafe for breakfast, then sends Vivian to the ladies'' room. With her out of danger, he pulls out his gun, and they all start shooting. Vivian warns him as Ed sneaks to the side and is just about to get a clear shot at him. The two men shoot each other. State troopers passing by gain control of the situation. Afterward, Ross exonerates Vivian from his hospital bed by having her answer questions "yes" or "no", nothing else, in the presence of his boss and a stenographer. Once that is done, she grills him in turn, making him admit he loves her. He has one more question for her, but she already knows what it is and answers "yes".'
'mystery','In a secluded French hotel, a large inheritance is the motivation for threats and kidnappings.'
'comedy','Arthur Ferguson Jones (Edward G. Robinson) and Wilhelmina "Bill" Clark (Jean Arthur) work at the same advertising firm. Jones turns out to look exactly like the notorious bank robber "Killer" Mannion (also Robinson) and is apprehended by the police. After his true identity is confirmed, the district attorney gives Jones a letter identifying him, so that he can avoid the same trouble in future. Jones becomes a local celebrity and, at the behest of his boss (Paul Harvey), begins ghost-writing Mannion''s "autobiography", with good-natured but street-wise Wilhelmina voluntarily acting as his "talent agent" to see that he gets paid. Mannion decides to take advantage of his mild-mannered doppelgänger and, ultimately, leave Jones "holding the bag" for Mannion''s crimes. He kidnaps Wilhelmina, Jones'' visiting aunt, and a few others, and takes them back to his hideout. He instructs Jones to make a large deposit for Mannion''s mother''s benefit at the First National Bank, where police detectives are expecting Mannion to make another robbery attempt. Fortunately for Jones, he forgets to bring the check and unwittingly leads the police back to Mannion''s hideout. Upon his arrival, Jones is mistaken for Mannion by the waiting henchmen and quickly realizes that he is meant to be the fall guy. When Mannion returns unexpectedly, Jones orders the men to shoot Mannion. The police arrive in time to capture the rest of the gang. With Mannion dead, Jones collects a reward and takes a long-desired cruise to Shanghai with Wilhelmina.'
'drama, adventure','Skywriter and stunt pilot Sheila Mason (Myrna Loy) who has to work as a barnstormer because women were not allowed to be active in other aviation fields, is attracted to ace pilot Ken Gordon (Cary Grant). Ken is trying to perfect instrument flying (flying "blind"), with his own design of an autopilot. He has devoted four years to perfecting the system and even mortgaged his aircraft to get funds to finance his experiments. Before being able to prove his invention works, while Sheila Mason helps him prepare for the decisive flight, cooking him coffee, the stove has problems to get the flame. He tries to help her, but the gas around inflames right in his eyes. He is blinded at least temporarily, but the doctors can''t say how long. When Ken retreats from the world, Mac (Hobart Cavanaugh), his friend and partner, brings him Lightning, a seeing eye dog. [Note 1] He first resists any efforts to help him but with his dog, he learns to navigate his household and soon keeps busy by writing aviation articles. Sheila, who has fallen in love with Ken, does not tell him that the articles are all being rejected. She gives him money to survive by taking on dangerous stunts arranged by her manager, Nick Williams (Roscoe Karns). Ken finally regains his confidence and continues to work on his autopilot when the Rockwell Aviation Company based at Roosevelt Field, near New York, repossesses his aircraft for lack of payments. Distraught, Ken accuses Sheila of falling for him out of pity and sends her away. She plans a solo flight from Moscow to New York to win a $25,000 prize so she and Ken can marry. Her last stage from Boston to New York finds Sheila nearly out of fuel and running into bad weather. Her only navigating system was to look down from the aircraft to see where she was, but over Roosevelt Field, the fog is so heavy that she may not be able to land. With help from Mac, Ken sneaks into his old aircraft and takes off, using his autopilot to help Sheila land. While in the air Ken talks with Sheila about his desperation of being blind and not having any future. His intention is to bring her to the ground and then fly until he has no fuel and crashes. Sheila tries to dissuade him, but he is determined. The two pilots make it down, but Sheila deliberately crashes into Ken''s aircraft to make sure that he will not fly it to kill himself. A huge crowd has gathered at the airport. As the two greet the public and the press, Ken sees flashes of light from the exploding flash bulbs of the photographers. Ken and Sheila embrace as their car continues through the throng of well-wishers.'
'drama','Shelby Barret is a stable hand who rides show horses for snobbish wealthy widow Mrs. Nicholas, nicknamed Nicko. She meets Johnny Wyatt, the destitute son of a once-wealthy Long Island family who plays polo for Nicko. Nouveau-riche Gene Fairchild, a horseman who rides his own entries, is in love with Shelby, while Nicko is in love with Johnny, who has curried her favour. However, despite their efforts, Shelby and Johnny fall in love, and Nicko and Fairchild are jealous of their budding relationship. Nicko fires Shelby, which only encourages Johnny to leave her employ, and they elope to marry. Johnny brings Shelby home to Wyattville, the town named for his family, but his snobbish family does not approve of Shelby and treat her frigidly. They frown even more when the newlyweds start a business handling the horses of wealthy neighbours. Shelby had been expecting a loan from her grandfather in Kentucky to start the business, but when he is unable to provide the money, Shelby borrows from Fairchild without telling the proud but broke Johnny. Nicko soon shows up and starts gossip against Shelby, which does not help matters. When Johnny is away Fairchild invites Shelby aboard his yacht to help him entertain a wealthy client. She tries to contact Johnny, but when that fails she accepts the invitation. The client and his female companion, chorus girl Olga, show up drunk. Olga accidentally falls overboard and drowns, and Fairchild is accused of her murder. He intends to keep Shelby out of the case although it looks bad for him, while Shelby is afraid of scandal. While the case is in progress, with one of the ship''s officers saying that he saw Fairchild leaving the ship with a mysterious "woman in red," the Wyatt family talk about the case. Shelby snaps and confesses that she is the woman in question. She shows up at the court at the last minute to provide witness. The Wyatt family also comes to the court to defend her, if only to protect the family name. Shelby tells the court it was her, and thus she saves Fairchild. She knows that in making her confession she is risking her marriage, and wonders whether Johnny will understand and forgive her, although she has done nothing to be forgiven for. Eugene proposes that Shelby divorce Johnny and marry him, but Shelby admits she still loves her husband. In the end, Shelby and Johnny are reconciled, and Johnny chooses her love over his family acceptance.'
'drama','Template:Section Edited Duke and Jeanie Benson, an outlaw couple hiding out under assumed names in a calm, suburban community, read a newspaper article about a sweepstakes winner who has not yet claimed his prize. Duke realizes that he has the winning ticket and will win $150,000 if he can cash it in without getting apprehended. Fed up with suburban life, Duke decides to board a train to Kansas City, where he bought the ticket, while Jeanie plans to fly there and get a "stooge" to cash in the ticket. At the train station, reporter Frank Evers boards the train and starts a conversation with Duke, who calls himself "Downey." At San Bernadino, Anne Marvis boards the train, followed by Doyle, a process server. Finding the door to Duke''s room open, Anne hides in his bed, and when Duke sees Doyle enter in pursuit, he pulls a gun on Doyle, who says that he mistook Duke''s "wife" for the woman he was after. Duke is attracted to Anne, as is Frank. When Jeanie gets on the train because her plane was grounded, she suspects that Duke and Anne are having an affair and pulls a gun on them; however, Duke calms her fears by introducing Frank as Anne''s husband. Anne and Frank go along with the ruse. Sometime later, Frank accompanies the conductor to a room next to Duke''s, where they listen through a surveillance device to Duke and Jeanie bicker about their plans to have the "boys" meet him in Kansas City. Frank, in reality a G-man, hopes to nab the whole gang and decides to hold off arresting Duke. After Jeanie gets off the train at Albuquerque to board a plane to Kansas City, Duke tries to flirt with Anne, but she rejects his advances. That night, Frank and Anne agree to be honest with each other, and Anne reveals that she is really a Los Angeles reporter and has been subpoenaed to testify before a grand jury concerning a political scandal which she had unearthed. She says that she felt it would be "healthier" to go out-of-state for awhile. When Frank continues to claim that he is a reporter for The Telegraph , Anne indignantly reveals that she works for the paper and knows that he does not. In Topeka, after Flash, a porter, inadvertently finds the listening device in Duke''s room, Duke knocks out the conductor. Anne receives a wire that it is all right for her to return to Los Angeles and gets off the train. When Duke sees Frank pursuing him, he gets into Anne''s cab. They go to Borden''s Sanitarium, where Duke meets Jeanie, who is unhappy to see him with Anne. When Duke reads in a newspaper that another man has surfaced to claim the lottery prize, he sends his shyster lawyer Rickert to dispute the claim to the insurance company that handles the contest. While Rickert is away, Duke kisses Anne and asks her to leave with him after he collects the money. Anne agrees, but he locks her in her room anyway. Jeanie then unbolts the shutters of Anne''s room to help her escape, and Anne hitches a ride on a truck, but the driver works for Duke''s gang and brings her back to the sanitarium. Upon deducing that Jeanie let Anne out, Duke slugs Jeanie. Frank, impersonating an insurance agent, accompanies Rickert to the sanitarium. Duke shoots Frank as a carload of G-men arrive and then unlocks Anne''s door to take her with him, but Jeanie shoots him and then cries over his body. The gang is captured, and Anne is pleased to see that Frank is only wounded. On the train to Los Angeles, Flash comments that Frank and Anne have not come out of their cabin in two days. They kiss and it is revealed that they have recently married.[4]'
'western','A card sharp steps in when a Mexican family''s ranch is threatened by swindlers and cheats.'
'comedy, mystery','Nick and Nora Charles return from vacation to their home in San Francisco on New Year''s Eve, where Nora''s stuffy family expect the couple to join them for a formal dinner. Nick is despised by Nora''s Aunt Katherine, the family matriarch, as his immigrant heritage and experience as a "flat foot" are considered below Nora. The true reason for their invitation is that Nora''s cousin Selma''s ne''er-do-well husband Robert has been missing for three days. Nick is coerced into a little quiet detective work for the family. They easily find Robert in a Chinese nightclub, where he''s been conducting an affair with Polly, the star performer. Robert tries to extort money from Selma''s unrequited love, David Graham (James Stewart): for a payment of $25,000, Robert will leave Selma alone permanently. Unknown to Robert, Polly and the nightclub''s owner, Dancer, plan to grift the money and dispose of him. After being paid off, and returning home for some clothes, Robert is shot at the stroke of midnight. David finds Selma standing over Robert and hurriedly disposes of her gun. Despite this, the police determine that she is the prime suspect, and her fragile mental state only strengthens the case. Selma insists that she never fired her gun, and Nick is now obliged to investigate and determine the true murderer. As suspects pile up, schemes and double-crosses are found, and two more murders occur, including Polly''s brutal brother. Lt. Abrams (Sam Levene, making his series debut) readily accepts Nick''s assistance. Nick follows a trail of clues that lead him to the apartment of a mysterious "Anderson". As in the previous film, the film climaxes with a final interrogation and denouement featuring all the suspects. The murderer is revealed to be David (the mysterious "Anderson"), who has harbored a vengeful hatred of Selma after she passed him over and married Robert. The case solved, and once again traveling by train, Nora reveals to Nick that they are expecting a baby, although Nick has to be prodded into putting the "clues" together and she comments: "And you call yourself a detective."'
'comedy','Meek clerk Elmer Lamb has a mind for figures, so much so that circus promoter Bill Hogan hires him as "the human adding machine," featuring Elmer''s dazzling skill for numbers. Elmer wants to make enough money to open his own dairy farm. When the circus goes broke, owner Jeff Crane and daughter Kitty travel east with Elmer and Bill to get a fresh start. On the train, Elmer ends up playing cards with bridge champion J. Montgomery Brantley and defeats him. Brantley attests to Elmer''s skill, which leads to a nationally broadcast bridge challenge between the two for a prize of $15,000. A gangster gets involved and offers Elmer money to lose the match. Elmer also gets knocked unconscious on the final day of the match and temporarily loses his mental faculties, but Kitty, who now loves him, restores his powers. She then uses the prize money to buy Elmer a farm.'
'comedy, romance','When widower Stephen Blake (Douglas) and bitter divorcée Edith Farnham (Astor) meet at a ski resort during a Christmas vacation, Blake''s son and Farnham''s daughter conspire to keep their romance from the altar. After creating much mayhem, they succeed in breaking things up, only to reconsider for their parents'' happiness.'
'drama, romance','In 1773, young English beauty Maria Bonnyfeather (Anita Louise) is the new bride of the cruel and devious middle-aged Spanish nobleman Marquis Don Luis (Claude Rains). However, she is pregnant by Denis Moore (Louis Hayward), the man she loved before being forced to marry Don Luis. After the marquis learns of his wife''s affair, Don Luis takes her across Europe but Denis tracks them down at an inn, where Don Luis treacherously kills him in a sword duel. Months later, Maria dies giving birth to her son at a chalet in the Alps in northern Italy. Don Luis leaves the infant in the foundling wheel of a convent near the port city of Leghorn (Livorno), Italy, where the nuns christen him Anthony because he was found on January 17, the feast day of St. Anthony the Great. Don Luis lies to Maria''s father, wealthy Leghorn-based merchant John Bonnyfeather (Edmund Gwenn), telling him that the infant is also dead. Ten years later, completely by coincidence, Anthony (Billy Mauch) is apprenticed to Bonnyfeather, his real grandfather, who discovers his relationship to the boy but keeps it a secret from him. He gives the boy the surname Adverse in acknowledgement of the difficult life he has led. As an adult, Anthony (Fredric March) falls in love with Angela Giuseppe (Olivia de Havilland), the cook''s daughter, and the couple wed. Soon after the ceremony, Anthony is asked by Bonnyfeather to depart for Havana to save Bonnyfeather''s fortune from a laggard debtor, the merchant trading firm Gallego & Sons. On the day his ship is supposed to set sail, he and Angela are supposed to meet at the convent before departing together, but she arrives first while he is late. Unable to wait any longer, she leaves a note outside the convent to inform him that she is leaving for Rome with her opera company. But the note Angela leaves Anthony is blown away, and he is unaware that she has gone to Rome. Confused and upset, he departs on the ship without her. Meanwhile, assuming he has abandoned her, she departs and continues her career as an opera singer. Learning that Gallego has quit Havana, Anthony leaves to take control of Gallego & Sons'' only remaining asset—a slave trading post on the Pongo River in Africa. Three years in the slave trade (so he can recover Bonnyfeather''s debt) corrupts him, and he takes slave girl Neleta into his bed. Anthony eventually is redeemed by his friendship with Brother François (Pedro de Córdoba). After the monk is crucified and killed by the natives, Anthony returns to Italy to find Bonnyfeather has died. His housekeeper, Faith Paleologus (Gale Sondergaard) (Don Luis'' longtime co-conspirator and now wife), has inherited Bonnyfeather''s fortune. Anthony reaches Paris to rectify the situation and claim his inheritance. In Paris, Anthony is reunited with his friend, prominent banker Vincent Nolte (Donald Woods), whom he saves from bankruptcy by giving him his fortune, having learned from Brother François that "there''s something besides money and power". Through the intercession of impresario Debrulle (Ralph Morgan), Anthony finds Angela and discovers she bore him a son. His wife fails to reveal she is now Mademoiselle Georges, a famous opera star and the mistress of Napoleon Bonaparte.[3] When Anthony learns her secret, she sends him their son, stating that he is better suited to raise the boy. Anthony departs for America with his son, Anthony Jr. (Scotty Beckett), in search of a better life.'
'comedy, musical','Ernie Holley runs away on his wedding night because he thinks he has killed a wedding guest. His father Newt and his bride Pearl find him in New Orleans and persuade him to come home.'
'drama','During the Irish War of Independence in 1921, Irish rebel leader Dennis Riordan (Aherne) and English aristocrat Helen Drummond (Oberon) meet and fall in love. Riordan is pursued, however, by British army officer Captain Preston (Niven). The original movie ended with Riordan getting shot and killed, but did not do well at the box office. A happier ending was also filmed which all subsequent versions have. The original cut has since been lost. The movie has several comic relief scenes: after a raid on an IRA "safe house", British officers grumble about being not being able to find Riordan, who is in fact standing just behind them; when the Irish Delegation goes to a formal ball and is asked by the footman for their names to be announced, the delegation replies in Irish.'
'drama, sports','Clark Jenkins is the star quarterback of Atlantic''s college football team. He falls in love with classmate Margaret Anthony, whose father, Brad, is a newspaper sports columnist who disapproves of their romance. A gambler and school booster, George Scott, has been discreetly giving money to Clark, as he has in the past for players like Pop, who couldn''t have afforded to go to college otherwise. Clark''s roommate and teammate, Cal Calhoun, snitches on him to Brad Anthony, who investigates and falsely concludes that Clark intends to deliberately lose a game for a payoff from gambling kingpin Blackie Dawson. No such arrangement exists. But with the big game against Erie coming up, Blackie kidnaps Clark to make sure Atlantic can''t win. Pop creates a distraction on the field to delay the proceedings while Margaret, George and an apologetic Cal rush to rescue Clark in time to play in the game.'
'western, musical','Western movie star Tom Ford (Gene Autry) is scheduled to make a guest appearance at the Texas Centennial celebration in Dallas. When Ford leaves on vacation intending to miss the celebration, his publicity manager Lee Wilson (William Newell) convinces singing cowboy Gene Autry (Gene Autry) to appear in Tom''s place. While driving to Dallas from Hollywood, Gene meets Marion Hill (Kay Hughes) when his trailer collides with her wagon. Marion is also on her way to the centennial, intending to enter her show steer in the Texas Centennial Exposition. Watching Gene skillfully retrieve her cattle, Marion is impressed to see a movie star perform like a true cowboy. At the Texas Centennial in Dallas, Gene (pretending to be movie star Tom Ford) sings on the radio and becomes a national hit. Studio head Swartz (Charles Judels), hoping to capitalize on the publicity, decides to launch a series of Western musicals starring Tom Ford, even though the real Ford cannot sing a note. When the engagement of Gene (as Tom Ford) and Marion is announced in the newspapers, Ford''s real fiancée is infuriated. Meanwhile, gambler Tony Rico (Harry Worth) and his henchmen arrive in Dallas to collect the $10,000 that Tom owes. Wilson is forced to pay the debt, plus $25,000 to keep Rico from revealing Gene''s identity. Tom Ford finally shows up and reports to Swartz, but the studio head would rather appease the blackmailers than replace Gene with the talentless Ford. At the "Cavalcade of Texas" Gene and Marion perform as part of the centennial. When Tom Ford''s fiancée shows up, Marion is forced to leave. In order to save his romance with Marion, Gene takes a risk and confesses his true identity over the radio. To his surprise, the audience prefers him to the real Tom Ford. Gene''s confession ruins Rico''s blackmail attempt, and he and his henchmen escape with the blackmail money by dressing as cowboys and joining the cavalcade act. Gene chases after the outlaws in true western style, eventually arresting them. During the chase, the money is lost in a lagoon by Gene''s sidekick, Frog (Smiley Burnette). Sometime later back in Hollywood, Tom Ford is now working as Gene''s double. Gene sings to Marion on the set of his new movie, and she and Gene kiss.'
'comedy','Stanley Laurel and Oliver Hardy are a hen-pecked pair of Gypsies in 18th-century Austria. When Oliver is out pickpocketing, fortune-telling or attending his zither lessons, his wife (Mae Busch), has an affair with Devilshoof (Antonio Moreno). A cruel nobleman, Count Arnheim (William P. Carleton), persecutes the Gypsies, who are forced to flee, but Mrs Hardy, in revenge for Devilshoof being lashed by the count''s orders, kidnaps his daughter, Arline (Darla Hood), and Mrs. Hardy fools Hardy into thinking she is their daughter since he believes everything she tells him. She soon elopes with Devilshoof, and leaves Oliver and "Uncle" Stanley holding the toddler. Arline is too young to remember her old life. Twelve years later, the Gypsies return to Arnheim''s estate. When grown up Arline (Jacqueline Wells) accidentally trespasses in Arnheim''s garden, she recognises the place and Arnheim''s voice, but is arrested by a constable (Jimmy Finlayson) and sentenced to a lashing. Stan and Oliver try to save her, but Stan is too drunk and both are arrested. Just as Arline is stripped in order to be lashed, she is rescued in time by Arnheim, who recognises a medallion she wears and a family birthmark, and both try to rescue Stan and Oliver. It is too late though: Laurel and Hardy had already been worked over in the torture chamber: Hardy emerges stretched to a height of eight feet, while Stan has been crushed to only a few feet tall and the constable just stands yelling and moaning.'
'comedy','Carolyn Martin has expensive tastes despite husband Michael not earning much money. They split up and she is wooed by a millionaire.'
'drama, crime','Detective Johnny Blake (Edward G. Robinson) is a New York City cop who has made his reputation by cracking down on racketeers. When Blake gets kicked off the force, a powerful crime boss named Al Kruger (Barton MacLane) hires him in an attempt to gain fresh ideas about sidestepping the law and expanding his criminal empire. Blake soon gains Kruger''s trust and rises through the ranks of the criminal organization, much to the distaste of Bugs Fenner (Humphrey Bogart), who believes Blake to be a police informer.[2]'
'romantic comedy','Waitress-turned-Broadway star Mabel O''Dare (Marion Davies) and garage-mechanic-turned-prize fighter Larry Cain (Clark Gable) dislike each other intensely, but press agent Aloysius K. Reilly (Roscoe Karns) cooks up a phony romance between them for publicity. Inevitably, the two fall in love for real, and plan on getting married, with Mabel quitting show business to be a housewife and Cain quitting the fight racket to run garages in New Jersey. When their entourages get wind of their plan, they plant the story in the newspapers, and each thinks the other one betrayed their secret - until Mabel''s aunt (Ruth Donnelly) tells Mabel the truth. Mabel abandons her show and rushes to Philadelphia where Cain is fighting. Having been told by his manager that Mabel is going to marry crooner Ronny Caudwell (Robert Paige), an enraged Cain is waging an all-out fight against his opponent, until he hears Mabel''s voice and is knocked down. Reilly confesses to Cain that he was the one who leaked the story, and Cain''s second, DoDo (Allen Jenkins) accidentally throws a towel into the ring, making Cain the loser by a technical knockout. But since Mabel has bet on the other boxer, the newly reunited couple will have a tidy nest egg to start their new life together.'
'drama, romance','The film tells of Marguerite Gautier (Greta Garbo). She''s born into a lower-class family, but in time becomes well known, living in high society in Paris. Marguerite''s finances are covered by the wealthy Baron de Varville (Henry Daniell), but after many years of making money from her looks, she falls in love with Armand (Robert Taylor), a handsome young man. Armand loves Marguerite and she''s prepared to give up the Baron and be with Armand. However, Armand''s father (Lionel Barrymore) begs Marguerite to turn away from his son, knowing her past will ruin his future in Paris. Realizing the painful wisdom of his advice, Marguerite rejects Armand, who continues to pursue her even as she contracts a serious case of tuberculosis. The film ends with Marguerite''s tragic death in the arms of her suitor Armand, who has been much changed over the course of the film.'
'adventure, romance','A penniless ship''s captain is taking a passenger ashore after their voyage. The passenger throws a gold coin in the ocean that he says has been bad luck to him as it was a gift from his ex-fiancee. The Captain sends one of his men, an experienced underwater diver, to successfully retrieve it. The passenger explains that is a gold Spanish doubloon and the Captain is more than welcome to it. Going ashore, the Captain decides to have some fun by telling stories indicating that he discovered four chests full of the coins, which were pirate treasure. The news spreads throughout the island and leads to kidnapping, torture, murder and an attack on the Captain''s ship.'
'musical','Helen "Star" Mason (Shirley Temple) is a foundling rescued from the sea as a baby by Captain January (Guy Kibbee), a lighthouse keeper. The two live in the lighthouse at Cape Tempest. Agatha Morgan (Sara Haden), a truant officer in the area, demands that Star be enrolled in school and removed from the care of Captain January, who never legally adopted her. The possibility of being separated is devastating for both January and Star. Meanwhile, January loses his job at the lighthouse when the lamp is replaced with an automatic one. Things look desperate for Star and January. Nazro (Slim Summerville), January’s friend, tries to help and traces Star’s relatives to Boston. He contacts them and they arrive at Cape Tempest to claim her. To Star’s surprise and delight, her wealthy aunt and uncle buy her a yacht and hire January as helmsman, Nazro and Roberts (Buddy Ebsen) as crew, and Mrs. Croft (Jane Darwell) as cook.'
'drama, mystery','Mason is summoned to the Laxter mansion in the dead of night to write granddaughter Wilma out of invalid Peter Laxter''s will, to keep her from marrying suspected fortune hunter Doug. Peter dies in a mysterious fire and Laxter''s two grandsons, Sam Laxter and Frank Oafley, inherit his estate on the condition old caretaker Schuster and his cat Clinker are kept on. When cat-hating Sam threatens Clinker, Perry steps in and learns Laxter''s death was suspicious and the family fortune and diamonds are missing.'
'drama, adventure','Old pals Jake Lee (Pat O''Brien), Tex Clarke (Stuart Erwin) and Dizzy Davis (James Cagney) flew together in the Army during World War I. Almost 20 years later, Jake is the manager of the Newark, New Jersey branch of Federal Airlines, a New York-based airline company. Tex works as an airmail pilot and Dizzy, also still flying aircraft, is seeking employment with his friends. Prior to his hot-shot arrival (Dizzy does a few tricks in the air before landing), a New York associate warns Jake about Dizzy, calling him unreliable and troublesome. Insulted, Jake replies that Dizzy is one of the best pilots in the country, telling a few stories about his fearlessness and bravery. Jake hires Dizzy as an airmail pilot. Dizzy is immediately attracted to "Tommy" Thomas (June Travis), a 19-year-old girl also working there, who has just learned to fly solo. In order to go on a date with her, Dizzy, scheduled for a flight to Cincinnati in the evening, pretends he is suddenly sick and gets Tex to replace him. Tex makes it to Ohio, but on the way back to New Jersey, finds himself in a cold and heavy fog. Though there is zero visibility and he is having radio problems, he attempts to land in Newark. He crashes into one of the airport hangars and the aircraft catches on fire. Tex is taken to the hospital where he later dies. Tex''s wife Lou (Isabel Jewell), who was never very fond of Dizzy, blames him for her husband''s death. She calls him selfish and irresponsible and says that he hurts everything he touches. Dizzy, overwhelmed with guilt, returns to the airport. Meanwhile, the weather has gotten even worse and Jake has canceled all other flights. In addition, the aviation authorities have revoked Dizzy''s pilot license, for extraneous reasons. Jake consoles Dizzy on account of both losses and then goes home for the night, leaving him temporarily in charge. Another pilot, unaware of the cancellation, comes into the operations building, ready for his normally scheduled flight. Chagrined and burdened with his culpability, Dizzy demands the man explain how the newly acquired and, as yet, untested aircraft de-icers function, then knocks the man unconscious and irrationally takes his aircraft. Jake and the others are devastated when they find out. Dizzy radios information over to them about the de-icers. They work to a degree, but the system is flawed. He reports by radio on the problems of the system and his recommendations for modifications, knowing that he will watch progressive icing until he dies. He does not make it through the snow storm.'
'drama, adventure','In 1854, Major Geoffrey Vickers (Errol Flynn) and his brother, Captain Perry Vickers (Patric Knowles), are stationed in India, with the 27th Lancers of the British Army. It is during the period of East India Company dominance over the Indian subcontinent. Perry has secretly betrayed Geoffrey by stealing the love of his fiancee Elsa (Olivia de Havilland). During an official visit to local tributary rajah, Surat Khan (C. Henry Gordon), Geoffrey saves the rajah''s life while hunting, for which the rajah promises eternal gratitude. Later, Maj. Vickers is stationed at the British garrison of (fictional) Chukoti, along with British military families, within the part of India''s North-Western Frontier controlled by Surat Khan. A British miscalculation leads to premature withdrawal of troops to (fictional) Lohora, unnecessarily exposing Chukoti. Faced with an overwhelming siege, the British commander, Col. Campbell (Donald Crisp), surrenders Chukoti to Surat Khan, who then massacres the inhabitants, including British families. Surat Khan allies his forces with Imperial Russia, whom the British are fighting in the Crimean War, but spares Maj. Vickers and Elsa as they flee the slaughter. This repays his debt to Geoffrey. The love triangle and the quest for vengeance resolve at the Battle of Balaclava. Aware that Surat Khan is inspecting Russian positions opposite the 27th Lancers, Maj. Vickers secretly replaces written orders by Sir Charles Macefield (Henry Stephenson) to the commander of the Light Brigade, Sir Benjamin Warrenton (Nigel Bruce), to withdraw from the Balaclava Heights. Vickers instead orders the famous suicidal attack so the lancers can avenge the Chukoti massacre. Before the charge, Maj. Vickers reminds troops of the Chukoti Massacre and directs their anger: "Our objective is Surit Khan!" Although the 27th Lancers lose nearly all their 600 strength, they successfully breach Russian artillery positions. There, Vickers finds and kills Surat Khan, at the cost of his own life. Later, it emerges that Maj. Vickers wrote to Sir Charles Macefield explaining his actions, a note which he forced his brother Perry to deliver, under threat of court martial, so sparing his brother almost certain death. After receiving Maj. Vickers'' explanation of why the charge happened, Macefield takes responsibility and burns the note to protect Vickers'' good name.'
'comedy, mystery','Charlie Chan takes his wife and twelve children on an outing to a circus after receiving a free pass from one of the owners, Joe Kinney. Kinney wants Chan to find out who is sending him anonymous threatening letters. Nearly all of the circus workers are suspects, since Kinney is very unpopular. However, when Chan goes to meet him during the night''s performance, he finds the man dead, seemingly killed by a rampaging gorilla who somehow escaped from his cage. Lieutenant Macy takes charge of the investigation, assisted by Chan and his overzealous eldest son Lee, who also takes the opportunity to (unsuccessfully) romance Su Toy (Toshia Mori, credited as Shia Jung), the contortionist. On Chan''s advice, Macy lets the circus continue on to its next stop, with the trio tagging along. During the train ride, an attempt is made to murder Chan with a poisonous cobra. Then someone tries to break into the circus''s safe, but nothing is missing. Macy finds a marriage certificate inside, showing that Kinney supposedly married circus wardrobe lady Nellie Farrell in Mexico. However, Kinney''s fiance Marie Norman claims that she can prove Kinney was not in Mexico the day indicated on the certificate. Before she can prove it, during her act, someone shoots one of the ropes of her trapeze swing and she falls to the ground, seriously injured, but still alive. A doctor is summoned. Chan states that Marie is too badly hurt to move, so the doctor must operate on the spot. Chan asks everyone to keep quiet and clear the area, so as not to cause a potentially fatal distraction for the medical staff during the delicate operation. Meanwhile, Chan has noticed a newspaper article about a crime committed at a casino the day of Kinney''s alleged marriage. He sends his son to phone for a description of the crooks involved from the police. When Lee returns, he sees a man slug the policeman guarding the gorilla''s cage and let the ape out again. He struggles with the man, but is knocked out. The gorilla reaches the tent where the operation is in progress and tries to cause trouble. Fortunately, the operation is a fake, as is the gorilla. He is shot to death by policemen masquerading as doctors. It is revealed to be snake charmer Tom Holt in a costume, trying to pin a second death on the escaped animal. He and Kinney had robbed the casino and hidden out at the circus. However they had had a falling out over the division of the money, leading to Kinney''s murder. Nellie Farrell and her brother Dan are also arrested for trying to use a forgery to gain half interest in the circus. Charlie Chan agrees to obtain a lifetime pass to the circus for his family. He sees Lee Chan and Su Toy having some romance together wondering if any future grandchildren will be able to see the circus, too.'
'comedy, mystery','Charlie Chan (Warner Oland) gets to watch a performance that''s to die for. For seven years, opera star Gravelle (Boris Karloff) has been locked in an insane asylum, his identity a mystery - even to himself. But when his memory unexpectedly returns, he begins to recall that his wife and her lover tried to murder him - and now he''s determined to make them face the music. Gravelle escapes from the asylum and makes his way to the San Marco opera house and begins hiding out in the various rooms and passageways. Soon, members of the opera company are being murdered one by one. Chan soon investigates the killings and despite the presence of Gravelle, there are other suspects who may be the real killer. They suspects, excluding Gravelle, include Lilli Rochelle, the opera company''s prima donna who has been having a secret affair with Enrico Barelli, the baritone; Mr. Whitely, Madame Rochelle''s husband who has warned Barelli to stay away from his wife; Anita Barelli, the opera company''s number two soprano who has learned of her husband''s affair with Lilli Rochelle; and Phil Childers, the fiancée of Lilli''s unacknowledged daughter who has been refused permission to marry the daughter. Clues found by Chan to apprehend the killer include a torn newspaper, a charred note, a heel mark on a newspaper picture, and a bloodstained belt. Among the questions asked are who has been threatening Lilli Rochelle''s life, the mystery man in Barelli''s dressing room before he is murdered, and why does Chan insist that the opera be performed twice in one evening?'
'comedy, mystery','When a prominent racehorse owner winds up dead-allegedly kicked to death by his prized stallion, Charlie Chan is called in to investigate. But when the indomitable detective discovers evidence of foul play, he''s soon hot on the hooves of an international gambling ring with an evil plot to turn the racetracks of the world into a trifecta of terror!'
'comedy, mystery','Alan Colby, heir to a vast fortune, reappears after a seven-year absence, only to be murdered before he can claim his inheritance. The Lowells have been living off the Colby fortune, and now someone is trying to kill Henrietta Lowell, matriarch of the family. Among the suspects are: Charlie Chan is called to investigate Alan Colby''s murder where clues include:'
'comedy, drama','Jenny Yates (Anne Shirley) dreams of following in the profession of her deceased actor parents, but her grandfather, Uriah Lowell, with whom she lives, strongly disapproves. One day, the chatty young woman strikes up a conversation with struggling painter/actor Phil Greene, Jr. He is associated with a summer stock company trying out a revival of an old melodrama, Virtue''s Reward, in Jenny''s rural community before opening in New York City. Jenny is thrilled when he offers to give her a free ticket to that night''s show, as her mother had acted in that very play. When Uriah finds a playbill, he forbids her to go out and threatens to lock her out if she disobeys his orders. She mistakenly believes that live-in young hired hand Michael Arbuckle betrayed her, and promises him that she will tell her grandfather about his own misdeeds. When Uriah finds her gone, he carries through with his threat, but then changes his mind and unlocks the door. However, Michael locks it again after he leaves. Meanwhile, producer Archer Fisher is dissatisfied with the performance of actress Lillian Temple in the role of a young innocent girl. She complains that she has not been paid for six weeks. As a result, Jenny is disappointed when she finds another play being performed that night. When she returns home, she finds the door locked, and assumes her grandfather has thrown her out. The company is leaving that night, so she hides in the rumble seat of Phil''s car. When he finds the stowaway, he does not have enough gas to take her home, so he reluctantly takes her to New York. They both rent rooms from "Tippie" Tipton. Phil tries to discourage Jenny from pursuing her unrealistic dreams by sending her to see Archie, but his plan backfires when she is hired to replace Lillian. Worse, Jenny assumes the play is a serious production, whereas Phil knows that Archie intends to draw laughs from the audience with the hopelessly old-fashioned play. When Phil is unable to disillusion Jenny, Tippie offers to do so, but cannot either. In fact, Jenny takes her hints to mean that Phil is in love with her, but is unwilling to start a relationship until he is established as a painter. Uriah comes to New York in search of his granddaughter. Through Phil''s father, he finally manages to contact Phil. They all attend the premiere. Part way through her performance, Jenny realizes the truth, but gamely carries on. After the performance, she decides to return home. She tells Phil she never wants to see him again, but when she finds him hiding in the trunk of Uriah''s car, she changes her mind.'
'drama','In the mid-1930s, Dave Logan (Pat O''Brien) is obsessed and struggling to build and fly a new ocean-going flying boat airline with the prospects of reaching China from San Francisco. His wife, Jean (Beverly Roberts) and his boss, Jim Horn (Joseph Crehan), try to discourage him but he enlists war buddies "Dad" Brunn (Henry B. Walthall), to design his aircraft and pilot Tom Collins (Ross Alexander) to start an airline between Philadelphia and Washington, D.C. Undeterred when the airline fails, the group start a second airline in Key West, Florida, to deliver mail throughout the Caribbean. Another pilot friend, Hap Stuart (Humphrey Bogart), signs up and as the airline begins to prosper, Logan becomes more obsessed, making life difficult for all around him including his wife and best friends. Jean and Hap quit but come back on the eve of an important proving flight. The new "China Clipper" is the last project for Dad, who succumbs to a heart attack shortly after the takeoff. When the China Clipper encounters a severe storm off the China coast, Logan decides to cancel the flight, but Hap brings the flight in safely, with a few minutes to spare, securing a contract.'
'comedy, musical','Colleen is the manager of a dress shop named "The Ames Company", owned by Donald Ames. They try to keep Uncle Cedric from working, because he will ruin the company. Troubles start when he hires schemer Joe as his personal assistant. He later also hires Minnie, a woman who has a great passion for fashion. When he buys the dress shop for Minnie where Colleen works as a bookkeeper, a scandal is soon followed. Donald decides to shut the shop, but is stopped because of his infatuation towards Colleen. It is Colleen who eventually makes a profit out of the things that happened. Meanwhile, a man named Cedric tries to adopt Minnie. Minnie refuses and thereby causes a scandal. This angers Alicia, but the press can''t get enough of it. Donald loses Colleen''s affection and thus is sued by Joe.'
'comedy','A lady hotelier with an interest in eugenics invites some young men to spend the summer.'
'drama','Ruthless lumberjack foreman Barney Glasgow (Edward Arnold) will stop at nothing to achieve his goal, to someday become the head of the logging industry in 19th century Wisconsin. His determination to succeed leads him to end his relationship with saloon singer Lotta Morgan (Frances Farmer) and marry Emma Louise Hewitt (Mary Nash), the daughter of his boss Jed Hewett (Charles Halton), in order to secure a partnership in his business. Over two decades later, a wealthy and successful Barney and Emma Louise''s son Richard (Joel McCrea) strongly objects to his father''s practice of destroying forests without planting new trees. Barney visits his old friend Swan Bostrom (Walter Brennan), who married Lotta when Barney rejected her. Swan is now a widower raising a daughter, also named Lotta (also played by Frances Farmer), who bears a striking resemblance to her mother. Barney finds himself attracted to the girl and, foolishly hoping to recapture the love he abandoned as a young man, offers to finance her education. Complications arise when Richard meets Lotta and takes a strong interest in her, which is reciprocated, much to Barney''s displeasure and jealousy.'
'drama, sport','Pat Glendon (Wayne) is a former lumberjack turned bare-knuckle boxer who travels the countryside as part of gambling scam operated by Gus "Knockout" Carrigan for a New York City syndicate. Glendon arrives ahead of the travelling boxing exhibition, building the confidence of the locals who in turn bet on Glendon to win, only to have him throw the fight. The gambling circuit leads Glendon to Cedar City, a west coast lumber town where he soon finds himself a job as a lumberjack and becoming part of the community. At the lumberjack picnic Glendon fights and defeats "Ruffhouse" Kelly (Woods) a burly man from a rival lumbering camp. The town folk agree that Glendon is the one to represent them in the boxing exhibition soon to hit town. While in Cedar City, Glendon saves the life of the runaway orphan, Tommy (Tuppin), who befriends the boxer and acts as his "trainer" and is unofficially adopted by him. Maude Sangster (Rogers) a reporter pretending to be a social worker from San Francisco sent to Cedar City to expose the boxing scam, befriends Glendon and the orphan Tommy. Conscience gets the better of Glendon, and on the day of the rigged fight against Carrigan, Glendon tells him that he won''t throw the fight. He tells Carrigan that the Cedar City lumberjacks are his friends and he doesn''t want to scam them out of their hard earned money. In a hard fought, honest match, Glendon prevails and also wins the heart of the girl.'
'drama','At the christening of the "Wild Goose," an experimental aircraft designed for transatlantic flights, a number of significant industry figures from the Fleming-Grant Airways Corporation are present. President John R. Fleming (Ralph Morgan) introduces the test pilots, Ace Martin (Brian Donlevy) and Joe Randall (Thomas Beck), along with Joe''s fiancée, Ruth Franklin (Helen Wood). The eccentric Colonel Gimpy (Peter Lorre) convinces company people that he loves aviation and joins the group. He is really Baron Rudolph Maximilian Tagger, the head of a foreign spy ring, who plans to steal plans for the company''s new secret "D.O.X." bomber design. Gimpy seeks out a disgruntled Ace Martin and offers him money to betray his employer. Ace uses Joe, his young protégé, to obtain the plans, telling him he had made the blueprints. The Baron''s Operative #77 (J. Carrol Naish), secretly working for another spy organization, attempts to get the plans, offering Ace three times more money. The meeting between the two is watched by the baron, forcing Ace to kill the spy and keep the plans to bargain directly with the baron. On the maiden flight of the "Wild Goose", Ace and Joe are flying to Berlin with the company president on board. When they are in the air, Colonel Gimpy reveals that he has stowed away to accompany them. A gas cap comes loose, jeopardizing the flight. Ace volunteers to climb out onto the wing and secure the gas cap. At the War Department, officials tell Ruth that Joe has been unwittingly drawn into a spy operation. She radios the aircraft, now far off course over the Atlantic Ocean, convincing Joe to turn Ace in. Reacting angrily, he tries to shake Ace off the wing, but is restrained by the others. When Ace returns, a struggle over the controls leads to a burst of steam spraying over Ace''s face, blinding him and the aircraft being forced to ditch in the ocean. With death imminent, as water fills the cabin, Ace shoots the baron and gives Joe the only life jacket, along with the bomber blueprints, so that he will be rescued by a nearby steamer. The three doomed men left on board smoke a last cigarette as the "Wild Goose" sinks.'
'drama, mystery','Inspector Gallagher (Willard Kent) of the United States Department of Commerce views a number of crashes and disappearances of Goering-Gage Aviation Corporation aircraft as suspicious. With United States Army Reserve test pilot Jerry Blackwood (John Carroll), Gallagher visits the Goering-Gage company. Jerry test flies Goering-Gage aircraft but finds nothing wrong. When a severely injured passenger from a crash, claims a mystery aircraft attacked them, the owner, Henry Goering (Henry Hall) hires psychiatrist, Dr. Norris (John Elliott), to question the man. Dr. Norris believes a psychotic ex-World War I flying ace, whom he dubs "Pilot X," may be behind the attacks. With the help of Blackwood, Goering and Norris assemble a group of five ex-flying aces living in the area who may have a connection with the mysterious Pilot X. He recruits German Lieutenant Baron von Guttard (Hans Joby), French Lieutenant Rene Le Rue (Gaston Glass), British Captain Roland Saunders (Pat Somerset), Canadian Lieutenant Douglas Thompson (Wheeler Oakman) and American Lieutenant John Ives (Reed Howes). The group meets in a mansion to plan how to confront the mysterious Pilot X. One pilot, however, von Guttard comes under immediate suspicion when Goering is uneasy with son Carl (Leon Ames), an ex-German prisoner of war. On their first patrol, Pilot X attacks, killing von Guttard . Later that day, Le Rue is killed by Pilot X and the next day, Saunders has a mental breakdown. Blackwood receives a note from Pilot X, asking him to meet him in the sky at six o''clock the next morning. Thompson, meanwhile, receives a similar note but Pilot X, who is on the airfield, paints an "X" on Thompson''s aircraft. Blackwood mistakes Thompson for Pilot X, and kills the Canadian. When a paint can is found in Ives'' locker, all accuse the American ace of being Pilot X. That night, Dr. Norris calls the elder Goering, telling him that he knows who is Pilot X, but is murdered. Gallagher believes Blackwood is Pilot X, and sends Ives and Saunders after him. Helen Gage (Lona Andre), Henry''s ward, however, first finds part of Saunders'' goggles near Norris'' dead body, then finds the other half in his aircraft. Crazed, Saunders, takes off after Blackwood with Helen trapped on his aircraft. Once in the sky, Pilot X appears and attacks Saunders, wounding him. In a fierce dogfight, Pilot X attacks Blackwood but is shot down. In the wreckage of Pilot X''s aircraft the body of Carl Goering is discovered along with a photograph of Carl in a German uniform. He was not a prisoner of war, but deserted and joined the German Air Force. With the mystery solved. Blackwood and Helen realize that they are attracted to one another and embrace.'
'comedy, drama','The film tells of Madeleine de Beaupre (Marlene Dietrich), a devious jewel thief. After stealing a string of pearls from jeweler Aristide Duval (Ernest Cossart), de Beaupre flees Paris. She leaves a trail that implicates psychiatrist Dr. Pauquet (Alan Mowbray). As she heads for the Spanish border, she nearly runs into Tom Bradley (Gary Cooper), an American auto mechanic vacationing in Europe. De Beaupre spots Bradley again at the Spanish customs. She''s worried that the pearls will be found in her handbag, so she slips them into Bradley''s pocket. After they make their way through inspection, de Beaupre flirts with Bradley in an attempt to get the pearls back. Bradley is too shy to respond so she gets his attention by trying to "repair" the engine of her car with a hammer. De Beaupre lures Bradley to the San Sebastian estate of her partner in crime, Carlos Margoli (John Halliday). It doesn''t take long for Tom to figure out what de Beaupre and Margoli are up to. Yet, Bradley also knows that he''s fallen for de Beaupre, and he''s willing to go along as long as he''s near her.'
'comedy drama','Claude Pierce is an aristocratic and well-bred boy from England, whose parents have received a divorce. According to a child custody agreement signed by his parents, Claude will spend six months living with his father. Jay Pierce, the father in question, has settled in New York City, where he works as an architect. Claude starts attending a public school in New York City.[2] Claude''s "polished" manners make him stand out among his schoolmates, and the other kids start playing pranks on him. He soon gets on the bad side of two lower-class kids, Robert "Buck" Murphy and James "Gig" Stevens. Gig is in a dark mood at the time, because his father is about to be executed for murder.[3] Finding himself the target of the other boys'' anger, Claude decides to learn self-defense. Claude takes boxing lessons, which help him best Buck in a street fight. He wins his opponent''s grudging respect and starts befriending his former tormentors.[4] At a later point, Gig''s father has already been executed at the electric chair, and Gig lacks the money to provide a headstone for his father''s grave. He really wants to buy that headstone and starts seeking ways to earn enough money for it. Gig initially tries to get money from his aunt Rose Hawley, who is a kept woman and financially secure. He fails to explain what he intends to do with the money, so Rose refuses to help him.[5] Gig decides to raise the money by stealing, and convinces his friend Buck to help him. However, their initial attempts at crime fail.[6] Claude learns of the problem, and instructs his new friends to start "stealing from the rich" and to emulate a fictional role model, gentleman thief A. J. Raffles. Claude personally orchestrates a robbery at a house that is vacant and unguarded. The trio steal toys which they can sell at a pawn shop to raise money. The robbery and visit to the pawn shop go as planned, but the three juvenile delinquents are then arrested by a police officer who finds their activities suspicious.[7] The boys appear at court, where it is noted that nobody has reported the robbery. Claude explains that it was a fake robbery to begin with. He led his friends into looting his own house, and those toys belonged to Claude himself. He was just trying to help them out.[8] The judge finds Claude innocent of any actual crime, but still finds that Buck and Gig acted with criminal intent. He places the two boys on probation, and they now have to make regular reports to a probation officer. Buck and Gig blame Claude for their fate and angrily severe ties with him.[9] Buck and Gig decide to become runaways and flee from their families and their probation officer. Claude learns of their plans and decides to follow them, in hopes of convincing them to return home. Claude shows symptoms of illness at this point, but he attributes them to a common cold and pays no attention to them. The three boys meet at the local cemetery, under heavy rain. They check the recently-erected gravestone for Gig''s father.[10] The boys hitch-hike and are picked by a passing vehicle. The vehicle belongs to a trio of criminals trying to escape the authorities, and the boys distrust their intentions. The six of them stop for a meal at a diner, where Claude covertly alerts the police. While the criminals face the police in a shootout, the boys escape. Claude''s symptoms are getting worse, and he has both fever and delirium.[11] Buck and Gig are getting worried and decide to take Claude to a hospital. Claude is diagnosed with pneumonia.[12] As Buck and Gig decide to get in contact with their probation officer, Claude is visited by his mother Hilda Pierce. Hilda wants to transfer Claude to a better hospital, but her plan seems to backfire. Claude''s condition gets worse following the transport. Buck and Gig decide to tell their seemingly dying friend how much they care for him. The encouragement apparently helps in Claude''s recovery. The film ends with the three boys happily going on a bicycle ride.[13]'
'science fiction','Paul Lavond (Barrymore), who was wrongly convicted of robbing his own Paris bank and killing a night watchman more than seventeen years ago, escapes Devil''s Island with Marcel (Henry B. Walthall), a scientist who is trying to create a formula to reduce people to one-sixth of their original size. The intended purpose of the formula is to make the Earth''s limited resources last longer for an ever-growing population. The scientist dies after their escape. Lavond joins the scientist''s widow, Malita (Rafaela Ottiano), and decides to use the shrinking technique to obtain revenge on the three former business associates who had framed him and to vindicate himself. He returns to Paris and disguises himself as an old woman who sells lifelike dolls. He shrinks a young girl and one of his former associates to infiltrate the homes of the other two former associates, paralyzing one. When the final associate confesses before he is attacked, Lavond clears his name and secures the future happiness of his estranged daughter, Lorraine (O''Sullivan), in the process. Malita isn''t satisfied, and wants to continue to use the formula to carry on her husband''s work. She tries to kill Paul when he announces that he is finished with their partnership, having accomplished all he intended, but she blows up their lab, killing herself. Paul tells Toto, Lorraine''s fiancé, about what happened. He meets his daughter, pretending to be the deceased Marcel. He tells Lorraine that Paul Lavond died during their escape from prison, but that he loved her very much. Lavond then departs, to an uncertain fate.'
'musical','Dimples is a Bowery busker living with her pickpocket grandfather "Professor" Eustace Appleby. She is hired to entertain at a soiree in the Washington Square Park home of wealthy widow Caroline Drew. Mrs. Drew is so charmed by Dimples she opens her home and heart to the child, providing her a life of comfort and plenty. Mrs. Drew''s nephew Allen, a theatrical producer, abandons his sweetheart Betty Loring for haughty actress Cleo Marsh. His family is scandalized, but Allen pursues his goal of staging a brand-new play, Uncle Tom''s Cabin, with Dimples portraying Little Eva. During rehearsals, Dimples longs for her grandfather and returns to his humble dwelling, refusing to budge without the old man in tow. Mrs. Drew traces Dimples to the Bowery and a solution is found to the impasse. Allen realizes he loves Betty and is reunited with her. The film ends with Dimples appearing in New York City''s first minstrel show.'
'drama','In the Midwestern town of Zenith, Samuel "Sam" Dodsworth (Walter Huston) is a successful, self-made man: the president of Dodsworth Motors, which he founded 20 years before. Then he sells the company to retire. Although Tubby Pearson, Sam''s banker and friend, warns him that men like them are only happy when they are working, Sam has no plans beyond an extended trip to Europe with his wife Fran (Ruth Chatterton), who feels trapped by their boring small-town social life. While on the luxury liner to England, Sam meets Edith Cortright (Mary Astor), an American divorcee now living in Italy, who is sympathetic to his eagerness to expand his horizons and learn new things. Meanwhile, Fran indulges in a light flirtation with a handsome Englishman (David Niven); but when he suggests it become more serious, she hastily retreats and asks Sam not to spend time in England as planned, but go on directly to Paris. Once there, Fran begins to view herself as a sophisticated world traveler and tries to develop a high-class social life, also pretending to be much younger than she is. Sam says that people who would socialize with hicks like either of them are not really high-class, but she sees him as increasingly boring and unimaginative; he only wants to see the usual tourist sights and visit car factories. She becomes infatuated with cultured playboy Arnold Iselin (Paul Lukas), who invites her to Montreux and later Biarritz. She suggests Sam return home and allow her to spend the summer in Europe; feeling rather out of place in the urbane Old World, he consents. Sam is happily welcomed by his old friends as well as his daughter (Kathryn Marlowe) and new son-in-law (John Howard Payne), who have moved into his and Fran''s mansion. Before long, though, Sam realizes that life back home has left him behind—and he is tormented by the idea that Fran might have, as well. He has a Dodsworth manager in Europe confirm that she is in fact seeing Iselin, and returns to Europe immediately to put a stop to it. Fran tries to deny the affair, but he has summoned Iselin to confirm everything, She breaks down and begs for forgiveness. He still loves her and agrees to patch up their marriage. However, it is soon evident that they have grown far apart. In Vienna, news of the birth of their first grandchild arrives; although initially excited, Fran is displeased with the idea of being a grandmother. She eventually informs Sam that she wants a divorce, especially after the poor, but charming, young Baron Kurt von Obersdorf (Gregory Gaye) tells her he would marry her if she were free. Sam agrees. Sightseeing aimlessly throughout the Continent while the divorce is being arranged, Sam encounters Edith by chance in an American Express office in Naples. She invites him to stay at her peaceful, charming Italian villa. The two rapidly fall in love. Sam feels so rejuvenated that he wants to start a new business: an airline connecting Moscow and Seattle via Siberia. He asks Edith to marry him and fly with him to Samarkand and other exotic locales on his new venture. She gladly accepts. Meanwhile, Fran''s idyllic plans are shattered when Kurt''s mother (Maria Ouspenskaya) rejects his request to marry Fran. In addition to divorce being against their religion, she tells Fran that Kurt must have children to carry on the family line, and Fran would be an "old wife of a young husband". Kurt asks Fran to postpone their wedding until he can get his mother''s approval; but Fran sees that it is hopeless, and calls off the divorce. Feeling a duty to Fran, Sam reluctantly decides to sail home with her, leaving Edith. However, after only a short time in Fran''s now critical and demanding company, Sam realizes their marriage is irrevocably over. "Love has to stop somewhere short of suicide", he tells her. At the last moment, he gets off the ship to rejoin Edith.'
'comedy','Bob Webster, aka Bat Williams, is a career criminal who keeps his parents and siblings in the dark about his chosen career by pretending to be an engineer who is often away in different parts of the world on assignments. He uses this ploy not only to disguise when he is out of town engaged in criminal activities, but also to cover the times he has been sentenced to prison. After receiving a parole from prison, he rejoins his gang, including his gangster girlfriend, Grace Forbes in robbing a creamery. A robbery during which they kill a clerk who can identify them. After the robbery, Williams leaves the gang and returns to his family''s home in upstate New York. His father, John, his mother, Helen, and his sister, Mildred, all think the world of Williams. During his stints in prison, he sends one of the other gang members to different far-away locales, in order to mail a post card to his family, pretending that he is working there on an engineering job. During his visit, he overhears his father on the phone with the Governor, who is asking John to serve on the state parole board. Fearing discovery, Williams tries to convince his father not to serve on the board, but John won''t commit one way or the other. While in his home town of Barlow, he also runs into his old girlfriend, Letty Graves. To impress Letty, Williams breaks into a jewelry store and steals a bracelet, but kills the security guard so that he can''t identify him. Meanwhile, Detective Daniels has been pursuing Williams and his gang. He catches up to Grace, who is having an affair behind Williams'' back with another gang member, Al. Daniels threatens Grace with exposing the affair to Williams, if she doesn''t help lure Williams into a trap. In order to save herself, she double-crosses Williams, and Daniels is able to arrest him and send him back to prison. Knowing that it was Grace who gave him up, Williams secretly escapes from prison and tracks her down, killing her. He then returns to prison by hitching a ride on a truck, before anyone notices that he is gone. Again to prevent identification, he plants a bomb in the truck, which explodes after dropping him off near the prison, killing the driver. When it is time for his parole hearing, he is surprised to find out his father is sitting on the board. John is also surprised that the hardened criminal, Bat Williams, and his son Bob are one and the same. John is leaning to voting not to parole, but Williams threatens him with letting the scandal about him becoming public knowledge. This would ruin Mildred''s upcoming wedding. John relents and votes for parole, but not until he gets Williams word that he will leave the country once released. Instead of fleeing the country, he returns to Barlow, where he plans on robbing the payroll of Lettie''s father''s company. However, Detective Daniels follows Williams to the company at night, where he interrupts Williams in the process of the robbery. Williams turns the tables on Daniels and is about to shoot him, when John shows up. He had suspected his son might be up to something and had also followed him that night. To prevent his son from shooting Daniels, he is forced to shoot Williams himself. Daniels takes Williams away, so John won''t have to see his son die. John keeps the secret of Bob''s life and death hidden from the rest of the family.'
'comedy','Belle Dugan (Maude Eburn) and Kate Flanagan (Louise Fazenda) are partners in a doughnut business. When Belle gets $50,000 to sell her mine to a mining company for potential gold, she is brought into society and wealth with her daughter Joan (Ann Rutherford). She leaves Kate behind with her son Jerry (Eddie Nugent) behind at the doughnut business. Although they left on bad terms, Belle invites Kate and Jerry to a party at their new mansion, all while Kate where’s very uncomfortable shoes. When she sits to take them off, a dog snatches them and she embarrassed herself in front of everyone at the party. Belle kicks her out, and Joan and Jerry leave on bad terms, in defense of their mothers. That same night, Jerry has a brilliant money-making idea, a layer parking garage. They make a cake as a diarama and they start their garage business, as well as get into society and wealth just like Belle and Joan. This time, however, Kate has the party and invites Belle and Joan to HER mansion. Again, they leave on bad terms, as well as Joan and Jerry. Soon, Kate and Jerry sell the company because they were sabotaged by a businessman who’s offer to buy out the business was rejected. As a result, they were forced to sell the company to another businessman. Now they are out of wealth and back to the doughnuts when all of a sudden, just before Joan is to marry a Frenchman, the same woman that came and gave Belle the $50,000 for her mine comes and tells her they didn’t find any gold, just water. Now, Joan and Jerry get married and Belle and Kate are back where they started, at the doughnut business!'
'drama','Snapper Sinclair''s father once rode for stable owners Patricia and Cliff Barrington, but later was found to have thrown races and was banned from the track. To keep Snapper from being sent to reform school, Patricia offers him a job. A fast but untamed horse called Faithful quickly becomes Snapper''s favorite. He wins races as its jockey, but when he refuses to throw one for gamblers, they reveal publicly who Snapper''s father was and suspicion falls on Snapper, who is no longer allowed any mounts. He leaves for England, where he becomes a very successful rider. One day the Barringtons are there to enter Faithful in a race. Snapper discovers that they are nearly broke. He deliberately loses the race so that Faithful can win. Not sure where to turn next, Snapper is pleased when the Barringtons invite him to come back home.'
'horror','Dracula''s Daughter begins a few moments after Dracula ends. Count Dracula has just been destroyed by Professor Von Helsing (Edward Van Sloan). Von Helsing is taken by police to Scotland Yard, where he explains that he indeed did destroy Count Dracula, but because he had already been dead for over 500 years, it cannot be considered murder. Instead of hiring a lawyer, he enlists the aid of a psychiatrist, Dr. Jeffrey Garth (Otto Kruger), who was once one of his star students. Meanwhile, Dracula''s daughter, Countess Marya Zaleska (Gloria Holden), with the aid of her manservant, Sandor (Irving Pichel), steals Dracula’s body from Scotland Yard and ritualistically burns it, hoping to break her curse of vampirism. However, Sandor soon begins to discourage her telling her that all that is in her eyes is "death." She soon gives into her thirst for blood. The Countess resumes her hunting, mesmerizing her victims with her exotic jeweled ring. After a chance meeting with Dr. Garth at a society party, the Countess asks him to help her overcome the influence she feels from beyond the grave. The doctor advises her to defeat her cravings by confronting them and the Countess becomes hopeful that her will, plus Dr. Garth''s science, will be strong enough to overcome Dracula''s malevolence. The Countess sends Sandor to fetch her a model to paint; he returns with Lili (Nan Grey). Countess Zaleska initially resists her urges but succumbs and attacks her. Lili survives the attack and is examined by Dr. Garth through hypnosis; she reveals enough information to let Dr. Garth know that it was Countess Zaleska that attacked her, but suffers heart failure and dies. The Countess gives up fighting her urges and accepts that a cure is not possible; she lures Dr. Garth to Transylvania by kidnapping Janet (Marguerite Churchill), his secretary, whom he has a playfully antagonistic relationship with, but now realizes that he cares for her. Zaleska intends to transform Dr. Garth into a vampire to be her eternal companion. Arriving at Castle Dracula in Transylvania, Dr. Garth agrees to exchange his life for Janet''s. Before he can be transformed, Countess Zaleska is destroyed when Sandor shoots her through the heart with an arrow as revenge for her breaking her promise to make him immortal. He takes aim at Dr. Garth but is shot dead by a Scotland Yard policeman who, along with Von Helsing, have followed Dr. Garth from London.'
'comedy','Chester Beatty (Ruggles) and Tessie Weeks (Boland) have been engaged for 5 years and going together for 15 years before that. Chester is reluctant to burden Tessie with marriage because of his secret problem. He is a sleepwalker. When Tessie finally does rope Chester into marriage, he can''t get time off from his boss of 26 years, Mr. Frisbee (McWade). To resolve the problem, Chester sets out to impress his boss by securing a big sales contract of glass eyes. He takes Tessie and follows the rich doll company owner Horace B. Stanton (Barbier) to a lakeside resort and befriends him. However, his sleep-walking make him a prime suspect in a thievery/murder case.'
'comedy','In this slapstick romantic comedy, Alexander Botts is egged on by his sweetheart Sally to do great things, so he writes a letter to the Earthworm Tractor Company, and is hired as a salesman. He gets fired more than once, but is rehired by getting orders. He falls in love with Mabel, daughter of cranky Sam. Eventually, he proves a super salesman by selling many tractors to Sam, and wins Mabel''s love.[2]'
'drama, crime','Donald Cook and Johnny Arthur portray INS deportation officers at the Ellis Island immigrant station.'
'drama','In 1935, the numbers racket (selling of illegal lottery tickets) is big business throughout New York City, much of it controlled by mobsters, who are feared by the populace. Meanwhile, crusading, likeable young newspaper reporter Tim Higgins has just published an expose of graft in the awarding of major city contracts, only to have his article challenged by the accused, who threatens to sue for libel. Ordered by his editor to print an apology, Higgins instead resigns his job in anger, despite having a young family to support. As he is about to leave the office meeting, he is approached by a young woman, Ann Devlin, the daughter of a kindly old shopkeeper near the waterfront. She pleads for Higgins to help her father, who was just visited and ordered by a mob representative to aggressively increase his sales of lottery numbers to gullible store patrons. Higgins over many days interviews Ann, her father, and other witnesses, sometimes over dinner dates. He jokes to his wife that he is dating a blonde. At one point, Higgins receives a package containing a dynamite bomb. Mr. Devlin eventually sells his store to a Mr. Comos, and with the money, boards a cruise ship to Cuba. Mr. Comos is known to the mob and disliked by them. Suddenly, radio news reports that Devlin''s ship is aflame and sinking off North Carolina. Higgins, over his wife''s objections, hastily boards an open-cockpit(!) private airplane to fly and view the disaster, taking photographs of the burning ship. After some worry, they learn that Mr. Devlin is among the passengers rescued, and he later tells his daughter and Higgins that the fire was caused by combustible material apparently planted by the mob, who must have known he was aboard. Many other passengers died. Due to having this incriminating knowledge, Devlin is then ambused and killed by the mob. In the end, however, Higgins and Ann testify in court and the mobsters are convicted.'
'comedy','Johnny Dime goes to California determined to become a government agent. He ends up a soda jerk instead, then lies to sweetheart Molly Carter when she follows him west, claiming he is working undercover. Hogan, a detective, can''t help him become a "G-Man" so he bestows a fake title, F-Man, on the gullible Johnny. He becomes annoyed when Johnny accidentally interferes with his own undercover operation, trying to bring gangster Shaw to justice. Johnny ends up getting himself shot and wounded, but apprehends Shaw with a fake gun and becomes a hero by sheer luck.'
'drama, mystery','June Collyer (her last film) plays a meddlesome reporter who claims she can recognize "the fiend" because she saw his face in the fog (in a mirror). She becomes his target. Fellow reporter (Lloyd Hughes) tries to protect her, along with a ditzy photographer (Al. St. John). After there is a murder in a theater, the playwright (Lawrence Gray) pitches in to help solve the case. [1]'
'comedy','Ma and Pa Boyer work a small farm in Iowa, where they live with their daughter, Adie. Adie is dating her high school sweetheart, Davy Davenport. Ma thinks that Adie is pretty enough to be in the movies, and convinces Pa to sell the farm and move the family to Hollywood. Once there, Ma obtains a pair of passes to a studio, and convinces Pa to take Adie the following day. Once on the set, they watch director Chester Hart as he films a scene about farm life. As the filming proceeds, Pa offers some common sense hints on how to do things correctly. Hart enjoys Pa''s honesty and offers him a small role in the film. Pa doesn''t tell Ma about his acting job, and the following day Ma invites Nicky Ranovitch, whom she believes to be an important Hollywood producer over for dinner. Nicky, however, is not a producer, but a money hungry con-artist who believes that the Boyers are wealthy. Pa becomes infuriated with Ma''s ambitions for Adie, and in frustration confesses that he was given a role in the film. Ma sees this as angle to help Adie break into pictures and is delighted by the news. After a few days shooting the picture, Pa is disillusioned, and wants to quit. Hart, fearing that Pa is being lured away by another studio, talks his studio into offering Pa a $600 a week contract. Unable to turn down such a lucrative offer, Pa agrees. Ma is ecstatic at the news. Pa has to go film on location for a few days. While he is away, Ma begins spending money like it is going out of style. She buys a new house and many extras. When Pa returns home, he arrives in the midst of a lavish party Ma is throwing, whose guest list includes Ranovitch and many of his friends. Adie has become enamored by the slick-talking foreigner, and has begun to hang around with him. This is another shock for Pa, who announces that he''s not rich, and intends to return to Iowa, hoping everything will then return to normal. Ranovitch, aware now of the financial situation of the Boyers, leaves, and Adie is reconciled with Davenport. Ma promises to amend her ways, and convinces Pa not to return to Iowa. He agrees, and resumes his acting career.'
'comedy, drama','Newspaper reporter Bangs Carter and his rich buddy Wally Tucker end up on a train bound for Florida with jewel thieves and Wally''s ex-girlfriend. Bangs falls for a passenger, Jerry Quinn, along the way as they try to catch the crooks.'
'comedy, musical','Seaman "Bake" Baker (Fred Astaire) and Sherry (Ginger Rogers) are former dance partners, now separated, with Baker in the Navy and Sherry working as a dance hostess in a San Francisco ballroom, Paradise. Bake visits the ballroom with his Navy buddy "Bilge" (Randolph Scott) during a period of liberty, reuniting with Sherry (but costing her job), while Bilge is initially attracted to Sherry''s sister Connie (Harriet Hilliard). When Connie begins to talk about marriage, Bilge quickly diverts his attention towards a friend of Sherry''s, Iris (Astrid Allwyn), a divorced socialite. The sailors return to sea while Connie seeks to raise money to salvage her deceased sea-captain father''s sailing ship. When the boys return to San Francisco, Bake attempts to get Sherry a job in a Broadway show, but fails amidst a flurry of mistaken identities and misunderstandings. He redeems himself by staging a benefit show which raises the final seven hundred dollars needed to refurbish the ship – although he has to jump ship in order to do so. Bilge, now a Chief Petty Officer, is ordered to locate and arrest him, but allows Bake to complete the show. After the concert, Bake and Sherry are offered a show on Broadway, which A.W.O.L. Bake accepts on the proviso that Sherry asks him to marry her. Of course, he first has to be sent to the Brig and take his punishment.'
'comedy, musical','Male students are tricked into joining Billings College''s rowing team when the coach, Speed Hammond, is able to persuade the school president''s attractive daughter, Joan Simpkins, to recruit them. Bob Wilson is one of the rowers, but due to a problem with his grades, he ends up enrolling under a phony name. Adversaries try everything, even music, to distract the Billings crew during the big race, but the team holds on for victory.'
'drama, crime','En route to meet his fiancée, Katherine Grant (Sylvia Sidney), gas station owner Joe Wilson (Spencer Tracy) is arrested on flimsy circumstantial evidence for the kidnapping of a child. Gossip soon travels around the small town, growing more distorted through each retelling, until a mob gathers at the jail. When the resolute sheriff (Edward Ellis) refuses to give up his prisoner, the enraged townspeople burn down the building, two of them also throwing dynamite into the flames as they flee the scene. Unknown to anyone else there, the blast frees Wilson, but kills his little dog Rainbow, who had run in to comfort him in the cell. The district attorney (Walter Abel) brings the main perpetrators to trial for murder, but nobody is willing to identify the guilty, and several provide false alibis. The case seems hopeless, but then the prosecutor produces hard evidence: newsreel footage of twenty-two people caught in the act. However, Katherine is troubled by one piece of evidence. The defense attorney had tried to get his clients off by claiming that there was no proof Joe was killed, but an anonymous letter writer had returned a partially melted ring belonging to Joe. Katherine notices that a word is misspelled just as Joe used to spell it. She discovers that Joe escaped the fire and that Joe''s brothers are helping him get his revenge by concealing his survival and framing the defendants for his murder. She goes to see Joe and pleads with him to stop the charade, but he is determined to make his would-be killers pay. However, his conscience starts preying on him and, in the end, just as the verdicts are being read, he walks into the courtroom and sets things straight.'
'comedy','Chivo, a singer who works in a movie theater providing live entertainment, is and apprehended by a music-loving Mexican bandit Braganza who wants to make Chivo part of his band. Braganza, who admires American gangsters, also kidnaps Jane and her rich boyfriend, Bill. to become more like the American movie gangsters he admires.'
'comedy','Mavis Arden (Mae West), is a movie star who gets romantically involved with a politician. She makes plans to meet him at her next tour stop but her Rolls Royce breaks down and she is left stranded in the middle of a rural town. Her manager arranges for her to stay at a local boarding house. She immediately set her eyes on the young mechanic, fixing her car, Bud Norton, played by Randolph Scott. West sings the Arthur Johnston/John Burke song, I Was Saying to the Moon as she is trying to seduce Scott.[4]'
'musical','Meek, aging, hypochondriac stage producer J.J. Hobart (Victor Moore), who always thinks he is about to die, is going to mount a new show, but his partners Morty Wethered (Osgood Perkins) and Tom Hugo (Charles D. Brown) lost the money for the show in the stock market. On the advice of chorus girl Genevieve Larkin (Glenda Farrell), they insure J.J. for a million dollars, so that when he dies, they will have the money they need to produce the show. Genevieve''s friend, ex-chorus girl Norma Perry (Joan Blondell) is sweet on insurance salesman Rosmer "Rossi" Peek (Dick Powell), and he writes the policy. When Rosmer''s boss, Andy Callahan (William B. Davidson) finds out how old J.J. is, he is afraid he wil not pass the physical, but when Hobart does, Rosmer decides he has to keep J.J. alive as long as possible, to reap the rewards of his sale. On the other hand, Morty and Hugo have everything to gain if J.J. dies, and they try to help things along. When that fails, they talk Genevieve into seducing J.J., but she ends up falling in love with him instead. Rosmer finds out the reason for the insurance policy, and talks his boss, Callahan, into investing in J.J.''s show, to save the company the money it would have to pay if J.J. dropped dead after learning he was broke and could not put on the show. When the show is a success Genevieve and J.J. get married, and so do Norma and Rosmer.[4]'
'comedy, drama','Johnny Jones (Brent) is a penniless newspaper reporter assigned to interview Daisy Appleby (Davis), heiress to the Appleby Facial Creams fortune and the target of numerous suitors anxious to latch onto her wealth. What neither they nor Johnny know is that she is really a cafeteria cashier hired by a public relations team to impersonate the socialite. She proposes a marriage of convenience that will free her from the cads pursuing her so she can find her ideal man and allow Johnny leisure time to finish his novel. He agrees, and after they wed the company''s board of directors try to place him under their control, as well. When Johnny rebels and begins dating oil heiress Hortense Burke-Meyers in retaliation, Daisy, who realizes she truly loves him, tries to win him back by having her brother-in-law Alfred Parker impersonate an old beau in an effort to make Johnny jealous.'
'drama','George Taylor is one of the scions of town. When his son, John Taylor, is called to sit on the town''s grand jury, the younger Taylor laments the necessity of the duty. His father quickly upbraids him for his lack of civic responsibility. The trial he is to serve on the grand jury for is to determine whether a local racketeer, Joseph Britt, should be tried for the murder of a young man. Fearful of vengeance by Britt, the grand jury refuses to indict. As he leaves the courtroom, Britt is shot and wounded by Tom Evans, the father of the murder victim. Evans is also a friend of George Taylor. A young cub reporter, Steve O''Connell, is filling in for a more senior reporter, scores the story, ingratiating himself to his boss. O''Connell is engaged to Edith Taylor, George''s granddaughter. Using his connections, George Taylor gets O''Connell into see Evans, where he learns that Evans has evidence which will incriminate Britt, as well as several prominent local businessmen. When the story hits the papers, one of those prominent citizens, Jim Hanify, concocts a plot to have Evans released from jail, so that the gang can kill him. George Taylor is drafted to lead the cause to have Evans paroled, not knowing the true motives of Hanify. As he and O''Connell walk Evans out of the jail, Evans is gunned down by the mobsters. When O''Connell is scooped by other reporters, in spite of him being an eyewitness to the murder, he is fired by his boss. When the elder Taylor decides to track down the killers, he receives a threatening phone call from Britt, after which John Taylor hires a bodyguard to protect his father. George eludes the bodyguard, and blunders onto the hideout of the gang. While he is eavesdropping on the gangsters, he mistakenly believes their conversation as they are playing Monopoly to be a real conversation about their criminal activities. Eventually he is discovered and captured by the mobsters. When O''Connell shows up to rescue him, he is also captured. However, just before they are about to be shot by Britt, the police arrive to rescue the two. George Stone is acclaimed as a local hero, and O''Connell redeems himself in the eyes of his editor, who rehires him with a promotion and raise, which will allow him to afford to marry Edith.'
'musical biography','The son of a highly respected music professor, Florenz "Flo" Ziegfeld, Jr. yearns to make his mark in show business. He begins by promoting Eugen Sandow, the "world''s strongest man", at the 1893 Chicago World''s Fair, overcoming the competition of rival Billings and his popular attraction, belly dancer Little Egypt, with savvy marketing (allowing women to feel Sandow''s muscles). Ziegfeld returns to his father and young Mary Lou at the Chicago Musical College, and departs to San Francisco, where he and Sandow are deemed frauds for putting on a show in which Sandow faces a lion who falls asleep as soon as it is let out of the cage. Flo travels to England on an ocean liner, where he runs into Billings again who is laughing at a newspaper article denouncing him as a fraud. Flo discovers that Billings is on his way to sign a contract with beautiful French star, Anna Held. Despite losing all his money gambling at Monte Carlo, Flo charms Anna into signing with him instead, pretending that he doesn''t know Billings. Anna twice almost sends him away for his rudeness and for being broke, before revealing that she appreciates his honesty. Ziegfeld promises to give her "more publicity than she ever dreams of" and to feature her alongside America''s most prominent theatrical performers. At first, Anna''s performance at the Herald Square Theatre is not a success. However, Flo manages to generate publicity by sending 20 gallons of milk to Anna every day for a fictitious milk bath beauty treatment, then refusing to pay the bill. The newspaper stories soon bring the curious to pack his theater, and Ziegfeld introduces eight new performers to back her. Audience members comment on how the milk must make her skin beautiful and the show is a major success. Flo sends Anna flowers and jewelry and a note saying "you were magnificent my wife", and she agrees to marry him, flaunting her new diamonds to her fellow performers. However, one success is not enough for the showman. He has an idea for an entirely new kind of show featuring a bevy of blondes and brunettes, one that will "glorify" the American girl. The new show, the Ziegfeld Follies, an opulent production filled with beautiful women and highly extravagant costumes and sets, is a smash hit, and is followed by more versions of the Follies. Ziegfeld tries to make a star out of Audrey Dane, who is plagued with alcoholism, and he lures Fanny Brice away from vaudeville, showering both with lavish gifts. He gives stagehand Ray Bolger his break as well. Mary Lou, now a young woman, visits Ziegfeld, who doesn''t recognize her initially, and hires her as a dancer. The new production upsets Anna, who realizes that Flo''s world does not revolve around just her, and she becomes envious of the attention he pays to Audrey. She divorces him after walking in on Flo and a drunk Audrey at the wrong moment. Audrey walks out on Flo and the show after an angry confrontation. Broke, Flo borrows money from Billings for a third time for the new show. Flo meets the red-headed Broadway star Billie Burke and soon marries her. When she hears the news, a heartbroken Anna telephones Flo and pretends to be glad for him. Flo and Billie eventually have a daughter named Patricia. Flo''s new shows are a success, but after a while, the public''s taste changes, and people begin to wonder if the times have not passed him by. After a string of negative reviews in the press, Flo overhears three men in a barber''s shop saying that he''ll "never produce another hit". Stung, he vows to have four hits on Broadway at the same time. He achieves his goal, with the hits Show Boat (1927), Rio Rita (1927), Whoopee! (1928), and The Three Musketeers, and invests over $1 million (US$14,251,938 in 2017 dollars[5]) of his earnings in the stock market. However, the stock market crash of 1929 bankrupts him, forcing Billie to return to the stage. Shaken by the reversal of his financial fortunes and the growing popularity of movies over live stage shows, he becomes seriously ill. Billings pays him a friendly visit, and the two men agree to become partners in a new, even grander production of The Ziegfeld Follies. But the reality is that both men are broke and Ziegfeld realizes this. In the final scene in his apartment overlooking the Ziegfeld Theatre, in a half-delirium, he recalls scenes from several of his hits, exclaiming, "I''ve got to have more steps, higher, higher", before slumping over dead in his chair.'
'fantasy','God tests the human race in this reenactment of Bible stories set in the world of black American folklore.'
'comedy','A wealthy woman moves her niece to her estate and away from her niece''s jobless husband, who the aunt believes is a worthless bum. Through a misunderstanding, the husband is hired to work at the estate and complications ensue.'
'comedy drama','Cable layer Steve Reardon (Brian Donlevy) is in a tank at the bottom of the ocean near Hawaii reading an adventure story "The Son of Neptune", written by his girlfriend Edith McNeil (Glenda Farrell) who based the stories on Steve''s life. After repairing the cable he was sent to fix, Steve returns to San Francisco and asks his boss Willard Stone (Robert McWade) for a $1000 bonus and two weeks vacation so that he can marry Edith. Later, Steve and Edith have an argument, when he arrives hours late for their date and complains that she is taking too long to get dress. Steve, believing that Edith has been using him to get inspiration for her stories, storms out. At a bar, he meets piano player Eddie Mitchell (Norman Foster) and gets into a fight with two men who try to steal Steve''s money, and is knocked out unconscious. The next day, Steve wakes up in Eddie''s apartments. When Steve Learns that Eddie studied engineering in college, he offers help to his new friend to become a real engineer. One year later, Eddie has become an engineer and together with Steve they return to San Francisco. Steve buys an engagement ring for Edith. He has not seen her since their argument. When Steve arrives at her apartment and finds her with the heavyweight boxing champion, Terry Madden (Joe Sawyer), the subject of her new series "Ladies Love Champions", he gets into a fight with Terry. Steve is arrested and Edith bails him out of jail. They agree to marry if their romance lasts more than 6 months. Steve goes to work for F. Willoughly Tuttle, while Eddie takes the position as superintendent of the Honolulu station. In Honolulu, Eddie encounters hostility from chief engineer Noble Harrison (Theodore von Eltz), who believes that he should''ve gotten Eddie''s job. When Noble informs the head office that Eddie plans to correct a shifting coral formation which threatens to wreck their frayed cable by blasting; Steve convince the head office into sending him to Honolulu to help Eddie. When he tells Edith about the transfer and reveals that he agreed to stay on the job for one year, she becomes angry and ends their engagement. In Honolulu, Steve fires Noble and begins to flirt with Brenda Burke, Eddie''s secretary (whom Eddie has grown quite fond of). Brenda, tired of Eddie''s lack of interest, accepts Steve''s flirtation. When Steve spontaneously sends a picture of himself with Brenda in a bathing suit to Edith, she is furious and decides to go to Hawaii and give back his engagement ring personally. Meanwhile, in Honolulu Eddie warns Steve not to play with Brenda''s feeling and Steve realize that Eddie is in love with Brenda. Later, Steve meet up with Edith, they spend the evening together and reconciles. When Steve fails to show up for a 6 a.m. blast, Eddie, trying to impress Brenda, decides to go ahead with the blast without him. After Eddie dives into the coral, his air line is blocked. Steve arrives and rescues Eddie as Brenda and Edith watch on shore. Afterwards, Brenda and Eddie embrace, and a telegraph arrives from the head office saying that if Steve marries Edith, he will get a five-year contract and that she has permission to travel with him and get her stories.'
'drama','At the Rothmore Institute in New York City, Professor Fahrenheim prepares to travel to the jungles of South America on a two-year project to find a cure for spotted fever, which has been ravaging the Rothmore Mines. Fahrenheim''s research assistant, Chris Claybourne, agrees to accompany him, but insists on taking a few weeks off before the trip in order to have some fun. Chris ends up at a gambling club run by a crooked mobster name "Fish-Eye" and soon loses five thousand dollars on credit. That night, Chris meets beautiful model Rita Wilson, who tags along on his gambling spree. In the coming days, the two fall in love, and when she learns that he will soon be leaving for the jungle, she persuades him to stay. When Fish-Eye demands immediate payment of his gambling debt, Chris turns to his brother Tom for financial assistance. Suspicious of Rita, Tom offers to pay Chris'' debt, but only if he leaves for the jungles as planned—and without Rita. Chris agrees to the proposal and postpone his marriage to Rita until after he returns in two years. Angered by his decision, Rita breaks off the relationship and returns on her own to the gambling club, where she accepts Fish-Eye''s offer to work for him as an escort to lure wealthy gamblers to his club in exchange for paying off Chris'' debt. Soon after, Tom visits the gambling club and sees Rita, who confesses that it was she who paid Chris'' debt with money she inherited from her grandmother. Later that year, on Christmas Eve, Chris returns to New York City and learns that Tom and his fiancée have broken up, and that his brother resigned from his position at the hospital. When pressed for an explanation, Tom tells Chris that he fell in love with Rita and that they were secretly married, but later she ridiculed him and refused to stay with him. Believing the worst about Rita, Chris goes to the gambling club looking for her. Filled with remorse over her actions, she confesses her mistakes and admits that she still loves him, not his brother. Chris proposes that she accompany him to the jungle as a friend and wait for Tom to agree to a divorce before renewing their relationship. A few months later, when word arrives that Tom obtained the divorce, Chris tells Rita that he planned all this in order to get back at her for her actions. When she offers to let him use her to test their new serum, Chris refuses and bitterly sends her away. Initially, Professor Fahrenheim planned to test the serum on Chris, but now he has second thoughts about the potential danger to his assistant. When Rita learns that Chris will be used for the testing, she secretly injects herself with the disease in order to save Chris. Moved by her actions and realizing that he still loves her, Chris produces more serum and saves Rita''s life. Soon after, Chris and Rita get married and sail back to New York City.'
'drama','The film portrays, in a comic expose of gossip magazines of the time, has-been actor John Blakeford (Halliday) agreeing to write his memoirs for magazine publisher Jordan Winston (Gordon). When Blakeford''s daughter, Patricia (Hunt), asks him to desist for the sake of his ex-wife, Carlotta Blakeford (Marsh), he attempts to break his contract with Winston.'
'western','Town marshal Hopalong Cassidy investigates the murder of a gold miner who was killed before he could file his claim.'
'drama, mystery','The film opens on a ship where Barry Wilding (Leslie Fenton) and Julie Kenmore (Muriel Evans) meet on their way to England. On reaching there Barry finds out that he has inherited a house that belonged to his forefathers, to see how it looks like he goes there one night but finds out that it has been occupied by an old man and his daughter, the same girl he met on ship. The mystery evokes when he comes to know that suspicious people are after the house and strange things are happening.'
'science fiction','A visionary astronomer, Dr. Janos Rukh (Boris Karloff) has invented a telescope that can look far out into deep space, into the Andromeda Galaxy, and photograph light rays that will show the Earth''s past. He has theorized this as being possible for some years, much to his discredit among his fellow scientist-colleagues. Looking at the remote past on a planetarium-like dome in his lab, two of those ardently skeptical scientists, Dr. Benet (Bela Lugosi) and Sir Francis Stevens (Walter Kingsford), watch a large meteorite smash into the Earth a billion years ago in what is now the continent of Africa. Amazed by Rukh''s demonstration, the pair invite him to go on an expedition to locate the impact site. Rukh finds the meteorite in Africa but is exposed to its unknown radiation, dubbed "Radium X". This causes him to glow in the dark and to make his mere touch instantaneous deadly to any living thing. The exposure also begins to warp his mind. Returning to the base camp, he entreats Dr. Benet to devise a means of neutralizing Radium X''s poisoning effect. Benet develops a serum that holds the lethal element''s toxicity at bay, but Rukh must take regular doses of the antidote or he will revert to being a luminous killing machine. Rukh returns to his jungle base and learns from Benet that this situation has been complicated all along by the romantic relationship between Rukh''s wife, Diana (Frances Drake), and Ronald Drake (Frank Lawton), the nephew of Lady Arabella Stevens (Beulah Bondi), Dr. Stevens'' wife. Benet takes a piece of the meteorite back to Europe, where he modifies its effects to help people, including curing the blind. Working along similar lines, Rukh cures his mother''s blindness as well, but in spite of her warning, he goes to Paris to confront Benet and the others. There he pretends to acknowledge his wife''s new relationship with Drake, in reality it is the first step of his plan for revenge. Rukh murders a Frenchman who closely resembles him, making it appear that he has died and been rendered unrecognizable by an accident with Radium X. Believing the deception, Diana marries Ronald. Rukh now begins to use his radiation poisoning to kill off the members of the expedition. He marks each death by disintegrating a single statue on the exterior of a church across from where he is hiding. Each time, he focuses the radiation through a window using a raygun-like apparatus. Rukh manages to kill both of the Stevenses before the police realize what is happening. Dr. Benet helps them set a trap by convening a conference of scientists at his home to discuss Radium X, but Rukh secretly gains access and kills Benet. He has saved his revenge on Ronald and Diana for last, but finds himself unable to kill his wife. This hesitation brings him to a confrontation with his mother, the most important woman in his life. She has foreseen her son''s growing madness and smashes the last of his antidote bottles to stop him. As the Radium X begins to consume him from within, Rukh jumps from a window. He disappears in an explosive flame, vaporized before reaching the ground.'
'drama, adventure','The film begins by displaying a map of the Pacific Ocean and the adage: "There still remain far from the lanes of travel, myriads of unmarked islands, the refuge of lost men." On the island of Tankana in the South Pacific, a marriage is taking place between Val Stevens (Humphrey Bogart) and Lucille Gordon (Margaret Lindsay). The ceremony is interrupted by word that a ship is sinking on an offshore reef during a storm. Val hurries through the exchange of vows, and then rushes out to rescue Captain Deever (Paul Graetz) and his passenger, Eric Blake (Donald Woods). Val, who is in charge of a pearl business, hears that the natives who dive for him refuse to enter the ocean, as two of their men never surfaced. Eric joins Val and Lucille on a pearl-fishing expedition in which Val suits up in a diving outfit in order to show the natives that there is nothing to fear about. After being submerged at the spot where the natives disappeared, he gets attacked by a giant octopus, with his line loosening from the boat. Eric jumps in the water with a knife and kills the octopus, freeing Val from its tentacles. After this, a friendship grows stronger between the men. Since first meeting Lucille after being rescued, Eric has been smitten by her beauty. Feelings of love begin to appear among them. In his speeches, Dr. Hardy (E. E. Clive) slyly seems to prod Eric to follow his feelings towards Lucille. The Doctor instructs the Captain to spy on the incipient romance. Eric rescues Val a second time when two natives attempt to steal the pearls during a hold-up in his office. Val then urges Eric to stay on the island and become his partner, but Eric, who has asked Lucille to accompany him, refuses, telling Val that he must sail on to his destination. During one of their talks while drinking highballs, the Doctor tells Eric that he knows that he is a detective who was sent to the island to capture Val who is wanted in the United States for a murder. But, Eric says that he has changed his mind, as he now feels that Val is innocent. The Captain, though, believes that Eric is the wanted fugitive and tells Val that he is going to turn him in for the reward. Val angrily dismisses the accusation, but the Captain tells Val that his wife and Eric are currently making love. Val rushes home, while the Captain steals his gun. Val abruptly confronts the two who are talking, but the Doctor enters and soothes Val''s anger, and Eric confesses that he came to the island to capture Val. The Captain, while spying on the group from an open window and realizing that he has been hunting the wrong man, bursts into the room and holds Val by gunpoint. Lucille''s grandfather emerges from a room and shoots the Captain dead. Lucille expresses her interest in staying with Val, and Eric leaves the island to report that the wanted fugitive is dead.'
'crime drama','Theatrical Writer Greg Stone (Reginald Denny) is rehearsing with his troupe. Some secrets between the actors. And some problems with contracts to be signed with the producers. Then two murders. Stone is forced into investigating ...'
'drama, adventure','Christopher Powell is in Malaya with his fiancée and her father, capturing wild animals. While out hunting, he is attacked by a tiger, and his native guides run away, leaving him for dead. But the tiger is the pet of Ulah, a beautiful young woman who grew up by herself in the jungle. She rescues Chris and takes him back to her cave, where she nurses him to health and falls in love with him. When he eventually returns to camp, she follows. His fiancée is jealous, and the natives do not like Ulah or her pet tiger either, all of which leads to a lot of trouble.'
'comedy, romance','Three young women share the rent for a fashionable apartment in Budapest. Martha insists the other two follow a gypsy superstition when moving into a new place, counting the corners of a room and then making a wish: Susie wishes for a hat shop and to be independent of men, Yoli for a rich husband, and Martha for "the impossible", a good home, a man and children.'
'drama, adventure','During the French and Indian War, Alice (Binnie Barnes) and Cora Munro (Heather Angel), the two daughters of Colonel Munro (Hugh Buckler), commander of a British fort, set out from Albany to join their father. They are escorted by Major Duncan Heyward (Henry Wilcoxon), who has loved Alice for a long time, and by the Huron Indian Magua (Bruce Cabot). Magua is secretly an enemy of the British. Magua betrays them, but they are rescued by a colonial scout named Hawkeye (Randolph Scott) and his friends, the last two members of the Mohican tribe, Chingachgook (Robert Barrat) and his son Uncas (Phillip Reed). On their way to the fort, Uncas falls in love with Cora, while Hawkeye and Alice are attracted to each other. The fort is besieged by the French, under General Montcalm (William Stack), and their Indian allies. Hawkeye sneaks out at night and overhears Magua''s treacherous plans to raid the unprotected colonial settlements. Colonel Munro refuses to accept Hawkeye''s unsupported word, and forbids the colonials to leave to protect their loved ones. Hawkeye arranges for the men to depart, but remains behind. Munro has no choice but to pronounce a death sentence on him for his actions. Magua incites his men to attack the fort to forestall an agreement between Montcalm and Munro that would allow the British to surrender the fort peacefully in exchange for their lives. Before Montcalm can stop the fighting, Munro is fatally wounded and his daughters are carried off by Magua and a small band of his supporters. Magua tells the women that Cora will become his squaw, and Alice will be burned alive. Hawkeye and his friends break out of the stockade and set out in pursuit, as does Heyward. When they reach a stream, they are forced to split up. Hawkeye and Chingachgook search downstream, Heyward and Uncas upstream. Uncas picks up the trail and, unwilling to wait for the others, hurries ahead by himself. He manages to free Cora, but they are trapped on top of a cliff. Uncas kills one man, but Magua sends him plummeting to the bottom of the cliff. Rather than becoming Magua''s woman, Cora chooses to jump to her death. The dying Uncas drags himself over to her lifeless body and takes her hand in his before succumbing. Chingachgook arrives and challenges Magua to fight one-on-one. Hawkeye prevents Heyward from interfering. Chinachgook drowns Magua in the river. Meanwhile, Alice is taken to a large enemy settlement to be burned at the stake. Hawkeye sends Chingachgook to stand guard, then tells Heyward that Hawkeye must offer himself in exchange for Alice. Heyward offers to sacrifice himself, but Hawkeye tells him that the Indians would not trade Alice for a British officer they do not know. It must be an enemy warrior they respect highly, and Hawkeye meets that description. Heyward knocks out Hawkeye and takes his clothes, because the enemy does not know what Hawkeye looks like. Heyward enters the armed camp and bargains for Alice''s release. Hawkeye awakens and follows him. Faced with two men claiming to be Hawkeye, the enemy chief decides the winner of a shooting contest must be the real one, and he is proved right. Before she leaves, Alice kisses Hawkeye. Then he is tied to a stake and the wood around him set on fire. Alice and the others encounter a British relief force led by General Abercrombie. They storm the camp and free Hawkeye. Hawkeye faces a court-martial, but Heyward has the charges dismissed. Hawkeye enlists in the British Army and sets out with them to attack Canada. Alice tells him she will be waiting for him at Albany.'
'western','In the 1890s, undercover federal agents John Tipton (Wayne) and Bridger (Chandler) head for Crocket City, Wyoming to supervise the vote on whether to join the Union. One group of local outlaws organized by Charles Plummer (Harry Woods) is using dynamite to terrorize the populace and ensure that the vote fails. In the chaos, Tipton and Bridger are separated and Tipton befriends a trio of settlers harassed by outlaws. They are Major Carter (Hayes), his daughter Janet (Rutherford) and their servant Moses (Fred Toones). Carter has recently become the new editor and publisher of the local newspaper, the Crocket City Blade, and when he announces plans to use the power of the press to fight lawlessness and aid the statehood cause, he is threatened by Plummer and subsequently shot and murdered by one of his men in a staged fight. When Plummer''s henchmen eventually kill Bridger, after learning of his status as a government agent, Tipton fights on. He sends fake telegrams that trap some of Plummer''s men. Then he organizes the ranchers and on election day they descend on the town barricaded by Plummer''s gang and defeated the gang leader and his henchmen. On the day of the election, the villains actually initially stop the homesteaders from voting but Tipton leads in a bunch of agents and ranchers to crush the outlaws. It results in all the baddies brought to justice, Wyoming becoming a state and Tipton getting the pretty girl, Janet.'
'comedy, romance','Wealthy Connie Allenbury (Myrna Loy) is falsely accused of breaking up a marriage and sues the New York Evening Star newspaper for $5,000,000 for libel. Warren Haggerty (Spencer Tracy), the managing editor, turns in desperation to former reporter and suave ladies'' man Bill Chandler (William Powell) for help. Bill''s scheme is to maneuver Connie into being alone with him when his wife shows up, so that the suit will have to be dropped. Bill is not married, so Warren volunteers his long-suffering fiancée, Gladys Benton (Jean Harlow), to marry Bill in name only, over her loud protests. Bill arranges to return to America from England on the same ocean liner as Connie and her father J. B. (Walter Connolly). He pays some men to pose as reporters and harass Connie at the dock, so that he can "rescue" her and become acquainted. On the voyage, Connie initially treats him with contempt, assuming that he is just the latest in a long line of fortune hunters after her money, but Bill gradually overcomes her suspicions. Complications arise when Connie and Bill actually fall in love. They get married, but Gladys decides that she prefers Bill to a marriage-averse newspaperman and interrupts their honeymoon to reclaim her husband. Bill reveals that he found out that Gladys'' Yucatán divorce was not valid, but Gladys states she got a second divorce in Reno, so she and Bill are actually man and wife. Fortunately, Connie and Bill manage to show Gladys that she really loves Warren.'
'comedy, drama','Young Cedric "Ceddie" Errol (Freddie Bartholomew) and his widowed mother, whom he calls "Dearest" (Dolores Costello), live frugally in 1880s Brooklyn after the death of his father. Cedric''s prejudiced English grandfather, the Earl of Dorincourt (C. Aubrey Smith), had long ago disowned his son for marrying an American. The earl sends his lawyer Havisham (Henry Stephenson) to bring Ceddie to England. As the earl''s sons are all dead, Ceddie is the heir to the title. Mrs. Errol accompanies her son to England, but is not allowed to live at Dorincourt castle. For Cedric''s happiness, she does not tell him it is because of his grandfather''s bigotry. The earl''s lawyer is impressed with the young widow''s wisdom. However, the earl expresses skepticism when Mr. Havisham informs him that Cedric''s mother will not accept an allowance from him. Cedric soon wins the hearts of his stern grandfather and everyone else. The earl hosts a grand party to proudly introduce his grandson to British society, notably his sister Lady Constantia Lorridaile (Constance Collier). After the party, Havisham informs the Earl that Cedric is not the heir apparent after all. American Minna Tipton (Helen Flint) insists her son Tom (Jackie Searl) is the offspring of her late husband, the earl''s eldest son. Heartbroken, the earl accepts her apparently valid claim, though Tom proves to be a rather obnoxious lad. Fortunately for Ceddie, his friend Dick Tipton (Mickey Rooney) recognises Minna from her newspaper picture. He takes his brother Ben, Tom''s real father, to England and disproves Minna''s claim. The earl apologises to Ceddie''s mother and invites her to live with the delighted Ceddie on his estate.'
'historical','On the last day of 1770, youngster Jonathan Blake (Freddie Bartholomew) overhears two sailors discussing something suspicious in his aunt''s ale-house in a Norfolk fishing village. He persuades his more respectable best friend, Horatio Nelson (Douglas Scott), to sneak aboard the sailors'' ship with him. They overhear a plot involving insurance fraud. When Jonathan decides to warn the insurers, Horatio cannot accompany him, because that same day he is invited to join the Royal Navy as a midshipman. Jonathan walks all the way to London to Lloyd''s Coffee House, where the insurers conduct their business. Mr. Angerstein (Guy Standing), the head of one of the syndicates that make up Lloyd''s of London, listens to him. Instead of a monetary reward, Jonathan asks to work at Lloyd''s as a waiter.[n 1] Angerstein teaches him that news, "honestly acquired and honestly shared," is the lifeblood of the insurance industry. Many years later, Jonathan shows Angerstein a system of semaphore telegraph apparatuses he has invented, which can relay messages across the English Channel in five minutes. While gathering news in France, disguised as a French priest, he rescues Elizabeth (Madeleine Carroll), a secretive young Englishwoman picked up by the French after Napoleon orders the arrest of all English people. On the boat trip back to England, they fall in love. Jonathan calls on her uninvited and learns that she is Lady Stacy, married to Lord Everett Stacy (George Sanders), a gambler who has been frequently refused admission to the syndicates at Lloyds. Insulted at being dismissed by Stacy as a mere "waiter" at Lloyds, Jonathan vows to make himself so rich and powerful that even the aristocracy will have to pay him respect.[n 2] He succeeds, setting up his own syndicate and known as "Lucky Blake," but his attitude becomes cynical and hardened, his transactions more like gambling than insurance. Jonathan meets Lord and Lady Stacy again and he begins seeing her in secret. Stacy, with heavy gambling losses and hounded by creditors, inveigles Jonathan to give him a share of the profits of his syndicate by insinuating he will expose them. But war with France results in disastrous losses that threaten to bankrupt Lloyd''s. When the insurers raise their rates, British ship owners complain that the charges are exorbitant and refuse to sail unless the old rates are restored. Angerstein proposes that the old rates be restored by persuading the Admiralty to provide armed escorts to the merchant vessels. But Horatio Nelson now commands the Royal Navy''s Mediterranean Fleet and Jonathan objects that such a course would reduce Nelson''s fleet by half at a time when it needs to keep the French Fleet blockaded in Toulon, putting England''s survival in the balance. He commits his syndicate to the old rates without escorts, single-handedly keeping British commerce going and Nelson''s force intact. Stacy hounds Jonathan for funds but as the losses mount, the syndicate runs out of money and he refuses. Elizabeth agrees to give her newly inherited fortune to Stacy in return for a divorce. However the French fleet escapes Nelson''s blockade anyway and Jonathan is abandoned by his syndicate members. Elizabeth forsakes her divorce and puts her fortune at his disposal over his protests. Soon even this runs out. Lord Drayton, First Lord the Admiralty and Stacy''s uncle, agrees to order half of Nelson''s fleet to convoy the merchant ships. Before the order can be sent, Jonathan receives a letter from Nelson thanking him for his sacrifices and urging him "at all costs" to protect his fleet from being divided. Determined to buy Nelson more time, Jonathan secretly sends a false message from France reporting a victory by Nelson. Stacy, however, learns that Jonathan was in Calais on the day the message was sent and goes to Angerstein, who warns him that if he denounces Jonathan as a traitor, he himself will be ruined too, since unbeknown to Stacy, Elizabeth''s fortune is tied up in the syndicate as well. Stacy finds Jonathan and Elizabeth in each other''s arms and shoots his rival in the back. Jonathan, however, has bought enough time for Nelson to win the Battle of Trafalgar, at cost of his own life. A recovering Jonathan watches sadly from the window as his childhood friend''s funeral procession passes by.'
'comedy','Kay Colby (Carole Lombard) is a Park Avenue beauty with two suitors: fiancé Bill Wadsworth (Cesar Romero) and Scott Miller (Preston Foster). To clear his way, Scott buys the oil company Bill works for and sends him to Japan. Then he sends his own girl friend, Countess Campanella (Betty Lawford), to Honolulu to get her out of the way as well. Kay is upset by Bill''s leaving, and annoyed by Scott pressing his suit, but Scott has the assistance and approval of Kay''s mother (Janet Beecher) in his efforts, and the advice of his friend and business partner, Brinkerhoff (Richard Carle).[1]'
'romantic comedy','To finance a new play, Michael McCreigh needs $15,000. He proposes an outrageous wager with his rich Uncle Carlton, that without clothes or money, Michael can make it from New York City to Los Angeles in 10 days, and arrive there in a new suit with $100. If not, he will quit the theater and go into his uncle''s meatpacking business. Dropped off from a limousine in only his undergarments, Michael dashes into a diner. There he encounters Paula Gilbert and her beau Jackson Wallace, promptly stealing her coat and his tux. While hitchhiking, by coincidence, Paula and her Aunt Charlotte come along. To the consternation of her aunt, who prefers Jackson''s prospects, Paula begins to fall for Michael. His various schemes earn him money on the way west, but after two escaped convicts rob them, Paula becomes aware of Michael''s bet and is disappointed in him. He manages to get to L.A. just in time, with reward money for capturing the fugitives, and Paula forgives him. Then she demands that he go into his uncle''s meatpacking trade after all.'
'comedy, romance','Rival London-based American newspaper correspondents Michael "Mike" Anthony (Clark Gable) and Barnabas "Barney" Pells (Franchot Tone) flip a coin to determine who will cover which of two boring assignments. Mike gets to cover the wedding of millionairess Sally Parker (Joan Crawford) to fortune-seeking Prince Igor (Ivan Lebedeff), while Barney has to interview aviator Baron Otto Spandermann (Reginald Owen) and his wife, Baroness Hilda (Mona Barrie). When Mike sees Sally running out of the church, he follows her, hoping to get a story. At her hotel, Mike runs into the suspicious Barney, but does not tell him what just happened. He then sneaks into Sally''s hotel room, tells her that he has admired her for years, and suggests that he help her "get away from it all." When the gigolo prince comes to the hotel, Mike slugs him when the prince recognizes him as a reporter. He and Sally run away, using the Baron and Baroness''s flying suits as disguises. Barney chases them to the airport, but is too late. They fly away, though neither is a pilot. Just before they crash land in France, they find a munitions map in a bouquet of flowers intended for the Baroness and realize that the aviators are spies. Although Mike has sent a secret cablegram about Sally to his editor, Lees Berger (William Demarest), in New York, he is even more excited about the spy story. In Paris, Mike and Sally are found by Barney, then are spotted by the Baron and Baroness. Barney comes along when they flee, but Mike pushes him into the back of the truck they steal and convinces Sally that Barney is a lowlife reporter. By nightfall, they arrive at the Palace of Fontainebleau and sneak in to spend the night. During the evening, they realize that they are in love, and Mike tries to tell her that he is a reporter, but cannot. Next morning, Barney finds them again, but Sally does not believe him when he accuses Mike of being a reporter too. Soon, however, an ashamed Mike gives her a newspaper with his byline. He apologizes and tells her he loves her, but she sends him away. When Barney arrives, she says she will give him the greatest story of his career, and they go off to make headlines. A short time later, while they are traveling by train to Nice, Sally realizes that she still loves Mike and wants to go to him, but just then the Baron and Baroness come into their compartment with guns and demand that Sally give them the map. When they do not find it, after pushing Barney off the train, they leave. Barney catches up with Mike at a cafe in Paris and tells him what happened, Mike decides to save Sally. In Nice, Mike is reunited with Sally, and they go to the train station. In the station, the Baroness switches clothes with Sally in the ladies room, then goes with Mike, posing as Sally. The Baron finds Sally and takes her to a restaurant. She tries to alert the police, but when two policemen arrive, they believe the Baron''s story that she stole his aircraft. The Baron then kidnaps Sally and the policemen and takes them to his chateau, where the Baroness has Mike bound and gagged. Having followed Mike and the Baroness (thinking that she was Sally), Barney at first laughs at Mike, then frees him. Using various ruses, Mike, Sally and the policemen eventually overwhelm the spies. Sally and Mike go off, leaving Barney tied up, but Mike has a change of heart and returns, once again finding Barney trying to get his story first by using the chateau phone to cable his editor. They finally agree to file a joint byline. Sally and Mike agree that they will soon be married.'
'comedy','June Drew (Anne Shirley) is the daughter of widowed Christopher Drew (Herbert Marshall), who suffers in silence as his daughter tries to "match" him with every eligible woman in sight.[1]'
'western','In Red River Valley, Banker Hartley Moore (Frank LaRue) schemes to sabotage the efforts of citizens to secure water rights in order to win water profits for himself. Following the murder of five men who were overseeing the completion of an irrigation system, Gene Autry (Gene Autry) is hired for the dangerous job of "ditch rider", in charge of patrolling the ditches to prevent malfunction or sabotage. At the Red River Land and Irrigation Company, Steve Conway (Boothe Howard) works for Mary Baxter (Frances Grant) and her father, George Baxter (Sam Flint). Jealous of Mary''s attention towards Gene, Conway joins Moore in his scheming actions and hires Bull Dural and his gang to dynamite the water gates and kill the ditch riders. On his first night on the job, Gene and his friend Frog Millhouse (Smiley Burnette) are almost killed. They apprehend Bull''s henchmen and turn them over to the sheriff. Conway and Bull then rob the payroll, accuse Gene of the crime, and encourage Baxter''s workmen to revolt by destroying the dam. Gene and Frog go after Bull, while Baxter and the railroad conductor hold off the men at the dam until Gene arrives with Bull and the payroll. Conway and Moore steal the train in a desperate attempt to escape, but they are killed riding into dynamite. Baxter successfully finishes the irrigation, after which, Gene and Mary ride off on their honeymoon.'
'drama','Burma is a confused girl who likes to party. One day she meets some strangers in a bar who invite her and her group to a party. She goes to the party with her friends, they all drink alcohol, only the girls at the party smoke marijuana unknowingly, and keep on laughing. Burma and her boyfriend have sex on the beach while her friends go skinny-dipping. One of the girls drowns at the skinny-dipping party and the rest of the friends must keep the details of the party a secret. When Burma tells her boyfriend she is pregnant (from their beach encounter), she pressures him to marry her. He says everything will be fine and turns to the strangers who threw the party for a job to support his family-to-be. The stranger gives him a job unloading smuggled drugs from a secret shipment to the docks. The police find out about this shipment, chase the smugglers, and shoot and kill Burma''s boyfriend. After Burma finds out about this news, she runs away from home, is forced to give her child up for adoption, and becomes a drug dealer. Burma moves on to harder drugs injecting heroin into herself. In the film''s ending, Burma hatches a plan to kidnap and ransom her sister''s adopted daughter for $50,000, but she later finds out that the child is, in fact, her own.'
'drama','Mary (Katharine Hepburn), by assuming her throne as Queen of Scotland, strikes terror into the heart of Queen Elizabeth I (Florence Eldridge). After languishing in jail for 18 years at Elizabeth''s command, Mary is offered a pardon if she will sign away her throne. Will she accept the deal, or die instead?[6]'
'war','The film opens with the Maine Incident of 1898 in which an American warship blew-up in Havana harbor, allegedly following sabotage by Spain, triggering the outbreak of the Spanish–American War. President McKinley, wishing to make contact with General Calixto García, the leader of the Cuban revolt against Spain, summons an American army officer Andrew Summers Rowan to the White House and gives him a message which he is to personally deliver into Garcia''s hands. Rowan slips into Cuba with the aid of the crew of a neutral British ship. But after discovering his mission, the Spanish hire the cynical, amoral Doctor Krug to hunt down the American before he can reach Garcia. After learning in Havana of the general location of Garcia Rowan sets out in the company of Raphaelita, a Cuban Patriot whose father has been killed by the Spanish, and Sergeant Dory, a deserter from the American marines. Both are convinced that Rowan won''t make it across the dangerous Cuban interior without help. Aided by villages of Cuban patriots, they make their way towards their destination. They also encounter Henry Piper, a British merchant from Sheffield, who has become lost in the Cuban interior. Spanish troops led by Krug remain constantly on their trail, and succeed in wounding Raphaelita. Rowan leaves Dory behind to care for her, but she orders Dory to go after Rowan to make sure he gets safely to his destination, believing that his message is more important than any one of their lives. Dory successfully guides Rowan past alligator-infested swamps and Spanish patrols and delivers the Lieutenant to where he believes Garcia is, not realising that the area has recently been overrun by the Spaniards. Rowan falls into the hands of the Spanish, and Doctor Krug begins torturing to discover the whereabouts of the message which Rowan has hidden in the barrel of his pistol. Dory, meanwhile, has been captured by the Cuban rebels who wish to execute him for having previously sold them useless ammunition. Dory''s personal appeal to Garcia for help to rescue Rowan, who he now realises is in Spanish hands, is refused and he faces the firing squad. Only the dramatic arrival of the British merchant Piper who verifies the truth of Dory''s story saves the American from being shot. Garcia begins organizing a rescue attempt which Dory volunteers for. Rowan has resisted torture, and refused to break. But when the Spanish bring in Raphaelita, whom they have captured, she tries to persuade him to end his suffering and reveal the message. He still resists, holding out long enough until the Cubans launch a major assault on the Spanish positions. Dory rescues Rowan, but is killed in the process. Rowan presents McKinley''s message to Garcia who tells him "this message means the liberation of our people".'
'comedy','Timid milkman Burleigh Sullivan (Lloyd) works for the American company, Sunflower Dairies. Two drunk men try to chat up Mae, Burleigh''s sister, and he chances by. In an ensuing brawl, Speed McFarland, the world middleweight champion, gets knocked out (but Burleigh never in fact threw a punch; he merely ducked to get out of the way of a punch which brought the champ down). McFarland''s boss, the crooked Gabby Sloan (Adolphe Menjou), decides to promote Sullivan in a series of fixed fights that will culminate in him being knocked out in a real fight with McFarland. Against all the odds, Sullivan triumphs and becomes world champion.'
'comedy, drama','Modern Times portrays Chaplin in his Tramp persona as a factory worker employed on an assembly line. There, he is subjected to such indignities as being force-fed by a malfunctioning "feeding machine" and an accelerating assembly line where he screws nuts at an ever-increasing rate onto pieces of machinery. He finally suffers a nervous breakdown and runs amok, throwing the factory into chaos. He is sent to a hospital. Following his recovery, the now unemployed factory worker is mistakenly arrested as an instigator in a Communist demonstration. In jail, he accidentally ingests smuggled cocaine, mistaking it for salt. In his subsequent delirium, he avoids being put back in his cell. When he returns, he stumbles upon a jailbreak and knocks the convicts unconscious. He is hailed as a hero and given special treatment. When he is informed that he will soon be released due to his heroic actions, he argues unsuccessfully that he prefers it in jail. Outside of jail, he applies for a new job but leaves after causing an accident. He runs into a recently orphaned girl, Ellen (Paulette Goddard), who is fleeing the police after stealing a loaf of bread. Determined to go back to jail and to save the girl, he tells police that he is the thief and ought to be arrested. A witness reveals his deception and he is freed. To get arrested again, he eats an enormous amount of food at a cafeteria without paying. He meets up with Ellen in a paddy wagon, which crashes, and she convinces him to escape with her. Dreaming of a better life, he gets a job as a night watchman at a department store, sneaks Ellen into the store, and encounters three burglars: one of whom is "Big Bill", a fellow worker from the factory at the beginning of the film, who explains that they are hungry and desperate. After sharing drinks with them, he wakes up the next morning during opening hours and is arrested once more. Ten days later, Ellen takes him to a new home – a run-down shack that she admits "isn''t Buckingham Palace" but will do. The next morning, the factory worker reads about an old factory re-opening and lands a job there as a mechanic''s assistant. His boss accidentally falls into the machinery, but the worker manages to extricate him. The other workers suddenly decide to go on strike. Outside, the worker accidentally launches a brick at a policeman and is arrested again. Two weeks later, he is released and learns that Ellen is a café dancer. She gets him a job as a singer and waiter, where he goes about his duties rather clumsily. During his floor show, he loses his cuffs, which bear the lyrics to his song, but he rescues the act by improvising the lyrics using gibberish from multiple languages, plus some pantomiming. His act proves a hit. When police arrive to arrest Ellen for her earlier escape, the two flee again. Ellen despairs that there''s no point to their struggling, but the factory worker assures her that they''ll make it somehow. At a bright dawn, they walk down the road towards an uncertain but hopeful future.'
'comedy','A comedy about marriage and everything relating to it. New York novelist Henry Fonda meets up with an actress, Margaret Sullavan, and the two date and later marry, though neither knows of the other''s fame. The real adventure begins on the honeymoon, when this screwball comedy really heats up with insults and arguments.'
'comedy, romance','Carol Baldwin (Jean Arthur) and Helen Davis (Ruth Donnelly) are the owners and instructors of the Supreme Secretarial School. They are concerned about their student Maizie (Dorothea Kent), who cannot spell, take dictation or type. When the instructors ask her what she is doing at the school, she replies, "I''m here for the same reason that every other smart girl''s here - to, uh, get a chance to meet nice men." They let her go. However, an equally inept former pupil drops by with a new student and informs them that she is getting married to a junior vice president, and Maizie gets hired on the spot, despite Carol''s hint to her new employer that she is too inexperienced. This leads Carol to wonder if these women are onto something. Mr. Gilbert (George Brent), the editor of Body and Brain magazine, phones to complain to Carol. He has fired numerous graduates of the school. She goes to his office to find out first-hand what he expects. He mistakes her for the new secretary and tells her to report to work in the morning. She is quickly smitten with him and does not correct him. Gilbert is a fitness fanatic. He has Ernest lead his staff in exercises at 11 o''clock and has them served a nutritious, if sparse, lunch. Mr. Crosby, the publisher and Gilbert''s boss, is startled by and skeptical of Gilbert''s methods. At the end of the day, Carol is delighted when Gilbert invites her to dinner. She orders a steak, but it tastes terrible. Gilbert informs her that it is made of vegetables and nuts. When she gets home, she complains to her roommate Helen, then enjoys a real steak. When Carol tries to improve Gilbert''s latest article with some "cheesecake" photos of scantily clad women, he rejects them. He is then told by Crosby to fix Body and Brain''s declining circulation, but he still rejects Carol''s suggestions. When he catches a cold, Carol implements her changes without permission, so Gilbert fires her. Later, Gilbert apologizes; the latest issue has sold out. He rehires her and agrees to soften his office rules. Their relationship heats up. Then his friend Bill Houston asks him for a favor. Bill''s wife is returning from Europe, and he needs to get rid of his attractive blonde secretary, none other than Maizie. However, after speaking to Maizie, Gilbert declines to hire her. Then he promotes Carol to associate editor and makes Maizie her replacement, much to Carol''s dismay. Soon Gilbert is out night after night with Maizie, neglecting his work, which Carol has to take on. Finally, Carol quits in disgust while Gilbert is away in Atlantic City with Maizie. Gilbert finally realizes he is in love with Carol. When Maizie refuses to leave her job, Gilbert suggests Mr. Crosby hire her. After seeing her, Crosby agrees. However, when Gilbert tries to see Carol, he finds she and Helen have moved away. He has an idea, however; he writes to her through his magazine, infuriating her. It works. When she comes back, he proposes to her.'
'comedy, romance','During the Great Depression, Longfellow Deeds (Gary Cooper), the co-owner of a tallow works, part-time greeting card poet, and tuba-playing inhabitant of the (fictional) hamlet of Mandrake Falls, Vermont, inherits 20 million dollars from his late uncle, Martin Semple. Semple''s scheming attorney, John Cedar (Douglass Dumbrille), locates Deeds and takes him to New York City. Cedar gives his cynical troubleshooter, ex-newspaperman Cornelius Cobb (Lionel Stander), the task of keeping reporters away from Deeds. Cobb is outfoxed, however, by star reporter Louise "Babe" Bennett (Jean Arthur), who appeals to Deeds'' romantic fantasy of rescuing a damsel in distress by masquerading as a poor worker named Mary Dawson. She pretends to faint from exhaustion after "walking all day to find a job" and worms her way into his confidence. Bennett proceeds to write a series of enormously popular articles mocking Longfellow''s hick ways and odd behavior, giving him the nickname "Cinderella Man". Cedar tries to get Deeds'' power of attorney in order to keep his own financial misdeeds secret. Deeds, however, proves to be a shrewd judge of character, easily fending off Cedar and other greedy opportunists. He wins Cobb''s wholehearted respect and eventually Babe''s love. She quits her job in shame, but before she can tell Deeds the truth about herself, Cobb finds it out and tells Deeds. Deeds is left heartbroken, and, in disgust, he decides to return to Mandrake Falls. After he has packed and is about to leave, a dispossessed farmer (John Wray) stomps into his mansion and threatens him with a gun. He expresses his scorn for the seemingly heartless, ultra-rich man, who will not lift a finger to help the multitudes of desperate poor. After the intruder comes to his senses, Deeds realizes what he can do with his troublesome fortune. He decides to provide fully equipped 10-acre farms free to thousands of homeless families if they will work the land for three years. Alarmed at the prospect of losing control of the fortune, Cedar joins forces with Deeds'' only other relative Semple (and the man''s grasping, domineering wife) in seeking to have Deeds declared mentally incompetent. Along with Babe''s betrayal, this finally breaks Deeds'' spirit, and he sinks into a deep depression. A sanity hearing is scheduled to determine who should control the Deeds fortune. During the hearing. Cedar calls an expert who diagnoses manic depression based on Babe''s articles and Deeds'' current behavior; he gets Deeds'' Mandrake Falls tenants, eccentric elderly sisters Jane and Amy Faulkner (Margaret Seddon and Margaret McWade), to testify that Deeds is "pixilated". Deeds is too depressed to defend himself and the situation looks bleak when Babe finally speaks up passionately on his behalf, castigating herself for what she did to him. When he realizes that she truly loves him, he begins speaking, systematically punching holes in Cedar''s case—when he asks the Faulkners who else is pixilated, they reply, "Why everyone, but us"—before actually punching Cedar in the face. In the end the judge declares him to be "the sanest man who ever walked into this courtroom."[4]'
'comedy, romance','During the Great Depression, Godfrey "Smith" Parke (William Powell) is living alongside other men down on their luck at a New York City dump on the East River near the 59th Street Bridge. One night, spoiled socialite Cornelia Bullock (Gail Patrick) offers him five dollars to be her "forgotten man" for a scavenger hunt. Annoyed, he advances on her, causing her to retreat and fall on a pile of ashes. She leaves in a fury, much to the glee of her younger sister, Irene (Carole Lombard). After talking with her, Godfrey finds her to be kind, if a bit scatter-brained. He offers to go with Irene to help her beat Cornelia. In the ballroom of the Waldorf-Ritz Hotel, Irene''s long-suffering businessman father, Alexander Bullock (Eugene Pallette), waits resignedly as his ditsy wife, Angelica (Alice Brady), and her mooching "protégé" Carlo (Mischa Auer) play the game. Godfrey arrives and is authenticated as a "forgotten man". He then addresses the crowd, expressing his contempt for their antics. Irene is apologetic and offers him a job as the family butler, which he gratefully accepts. The next morning, Godfrey is shown what to do by the Bullocks'' sardonic, wise-cracking maid, Molly (Jean Dixon), the only servant who has been able to put up with the antics of the family. She warns him that he is merely the latest in a long line of butlers. Only slightly daunted, he proves to be surprisingly competent, although Cornelia holds a grudge against him. On the other hand, Irene considers Godfrey to be her protégé. A complication arises when Tommy Gray (Alan Mowbray), a lifelong friend of Godfrey''s, recognizes him at a tea party thrown by Irene. Godfrey quickly ad-libs that he was Tommy''s valet at Harvard. Tommy plays along, embellishing Godfrey''s story with a nonexistent wife and five children. Dismayed, Irene impulsively announces her engagement to the surprised Charlie Van Rumple (Grady Sutton), but she soon breaks down in tears and flees after being congratulated by Godfrey. Over lunch the next day, Tommy is curious to know what one of the elite "Parkes of Boston" is doing as a servant. Godfrey explains that a broken love affair had left him considering suicide, but the undaunted attitude of the men living at the dump rekindled his spirits. During lunch, Cornelia has her longstanding boyfriend "Faithful George" (Robert Light) call Tommy away to the telephone. She takes a seat at Godfrey''s table and attempts to negotiate a peace with him — but only on her terms. Godfrey declines and Cornelia leaves in a huff. When everything she does to make Godfrey''s life miserable fails, Cornelia plants her pearl necklace under his mattress. She then calls the police to report her missing jewelry. To Cornelia''s surprise, the pearls do not turn up when Godfrey''s suite is searched. Mr. Bullock realizes his daughter has orchestrated the whole thing and sees the policemen out. After they have gone, he informs Cornelia she had better find her pearls herself, as they are not insured. The Bullocks then send their daughters off to Europe to get Irene away from her now-broken engagement. When they return, Cornelia implies that she intends to seduce Godfrey. Worried, Irene stages a fainting spell and falls into Godfrey''s arms. He carries her to her bed, but while searching for smelling salts, he realizes she is faking when he sees her (in a mirror) sit up briefly. In revenge, he puts her in the shower and turns on the cold water full blast. Far from quenching her attraction, this merely confirms her hopes: "Oh Godfrey, now I know you love me ... You do or you wouldn''t have lost your temper." Godfrey resigns as the Bullocks'' butler. However, Mr. Bullock has more pressing concerns. He first throws Carlo out, then announces to his family and Godfrey that his business is in dire straits and that he might even face criminal charges. Godfrey interrupts with good news: he had sold short, using money raised by pawning Cornelia''s necklace, and bought the stock that Bullock had sold. He gives the endorsed stock certificates to the stunned Mr. Bullock, saving the family. He also returns the necklace to a humbled Cornelia, who apologizes. Godfrey then leaves. With his stock profits and reluctant business partner Tommy Gray''s backing, Godfrey has built a fashionable nightclub at the now-closed East River dump called "The Dump", "...giving food and shelter to fifty people in the winter, and giving them employment in the summer." Godfrey tells Tommy he quit the Bullocks because "he felt that foolish feeling coming along again." However, a determined Irene tracks him down in his manager''s apartment at The Dump and bulldozes him into marriage, saying, "Stand still, Godfrey, it''ll all be over in a minute."'
'drama, romance','Aspiring actress Cicely Tyler (Margaret Sullavan) marries ambitious newsman Christopher Tyler (James Stewart) but their life together is interrupted when he is assigned to a good position in his newspaper''s Rome bureau, and she stays behind, confiding to her rich secret admirer, Tommy Abbott (Ray Milland), that she is pregnant. Separations, reunions and reconciliations follow as Cicely and Christopher struggle to balance their romance and their careers.[1][2][3]'
'comedy, musical','American showman Thadeus Spencer (Adolphe Menjou) is stuck without money in the Swiss Alps with his wife (Arline Judge), a girls'' band, a comedy trio (The Ritz Brothers) and a recent harmonica-playing discovery (Borrah Minevitch) when the group learns that the Grand Palace Hotel in Ardetz, where they were to perform, has burned down. Upon seeing Greta Muller (Sonja Henie), an innkeeper''s daughter, ice-skate, Spencer has a vision of her performing with a skating ballet that will make him millions. Spencer arranges for her to skate in a tryout performance at a St. Moritz casino for which he will get paid 950 francs. American reporter Bob Harris (Don Ameche) from the Paris Herald arrives at the inn to investigate the hotel fire which, rumor has it, was an attempt to kill a European premier. Bob has his photographer, Danny Simpson (Ned Sparks), trail Ratoffsky (Montagu Love), a suspicious-looking bearded guest, and tries to romance Greta, who is sullen after a band member has Bob massage her neck. When Bob learns that Greta''s father Heinrich (Jean Hersholt), a 1908 Olympic figure skating champion who lost his medal because he accepted money as a gift for teaching, has trained Greta for twelve years for the upcoming Olympics, he follows the troupe to St. Moritz and stops Greta after her first number, warning that she is risking her Olympic eligibility. Unaware that her exhibition involved money, Greta is grateful to Bob as they ride back on a sleigh. At the Olympics, Greta wins first place in figure skating, but when she refuses to turn professional and skate for Spencer in New York, he threatens to expose her St. Moritz performance to the ruling committee. Heinrich returns Greta''s medals himself when he learns of the St. Moritz exhibition, but Bob takes Spencer to explain the situation to the secretary of the committee, Sir Frederick Brooks (Montagu Love), who earlier was vacationing in the Alps incognito as Ratoffsky. As Greta received no payment and Spencer used all the money he received for expenses, Brooks declares Greta''s eligibility proven, and the whole troupe, with Greta now as the star, performs in Madison Square Garden.'
'comedy','On a rainy afternoon in Paris, debonair actor Philippe Martin (Francis Lederer) goes to a darkened movie theatre for a romantic assignation with his married mistress, Yvonne (Liev De Maigret), but sits in the wrong seat and kisses instead lovely Monique Pelerin (Ida Lupino), the daughter of a powerful publisher (Joseph Cawthorn). Monique, who is engaged to powerful Count Alfredo Donstelli (Erik Rhodes), makes a public accusation against Philippe, and the priggish head of the Purity League (Eily Malyon) exploits the incident until it becomes a national scandal, with Philippe dubbed "The Kissing Monster". When Philippe is tried, his defense is that he was overcome by Monique''s beauty, and that it is a Frenchman''s nature to be romantic, even to perfect strangers. His punishment is to spend just three days in jail, but when he is released, he discovers that Monique has paid his fine, supposedly to avoid more publicity, but actually because she is secretly attracted to him. Meanwhile, the tabloids have made Philippe into a national hero, and instead of his producer, Maillot (Roland Young), firing the actor, he gets a raise. His new show will have him re-enact the kissing incident, but on the day of the opening Monique''s father has him arrested, only be released when Yvonne, who turns out to be the wife of the Minister of Justice, convinces him to allow Philippe to do his performance, where Philippe learns that Monique has taken the place of the actress with whom he was to re-enact the kiss.[3][4][5]'
'drama','The Earl of Blythstone''s gambling losses have left him with debts. Unaware of this is daughter Joan, who is in finishing school but has gambling issues of her own, getting expelled after being caught doing exactly that. Identifying himself as Captain Smith, the earl travels to Palm Springs, California. In time his daughter pursues him there, and is surprised when a wealthy man named George Brittel at a casino identifies the man as a cheat, unaware that "Captain Smith" is the girl''s father. Joan decides to land a rich husband. Believing her to be Lady Sylvia, daughter of the earl, Brittel is immediately interested. So is a cowboy called Slim, who even gives Joan a horse. Aunt Letty invites a British counsel of her acquaintance, Bruce Morgan, to come visit Palm Springs and help sort things out. The earl explains his situation and why he is using a different name. Joan accepts a proposal of marriage from Brittel, who balks when he learns she is not a woman of wealth. Slim takes her back with open arms.'
'comedy, musical','In prison, Larry Poole (Bing Crosby), a self-described troubadour, is approached by an inmate named Hart (John Gallaudet) who is on his way to the electric chair. Hart asks Larry to deliver a letter to a family called Smith near Middletown, New Jersey. After finding the family, which consists of a grandfather (Donald Meek) and a young girl named Patsy (Edith Fellows), Poole tells them that the letter holds a key, reveals that the condemned man had unintentionally killed Patsy''s father and that he is giving the Smith family his old house and former hideout, the only thing he has to give as atonement. Susan Sprague (Madge Evans) represents the county welfare department and it is her job to see that Patsy is raised "properly", or the girl will go to an orphanage. A variety of misadventures befall Larry as he tries to help "Gramps" out with Patsy to save her from the orphanage, all while Susan and he are falling in love, paternally. To get cash for a restaurant license, Larry gets a stunt job at the circus, but is injured. While he is in hospital Gramps comes to let him know that the county has taken Patsy away. Larry believes Susan went behind his back and had Patsy placed in the orphanage. It is discovered that Susan had no part in it, but she loses her job defending Larry and his care of the child. Larry has the circus perform for the children so that he can ''break Patsy out'', when Patsy lets Larry know how Susan feels about him. Their attempt to free Patsy fails. Afterwards, Larry finds out that Susan has gone to New York and he goes there to find her. While in New York, Susan is approached by two policemen looking for Larry, not to arrest him as she suspects, but to bring him back to the head of the County Welfare Department to help deal with Patsy, who has gone on a hunger strike. The policemen are watching Susan''s apartment in the hopes that Larry will show up. When he does, they make him leave with them, after he and Susan reveal their feelings for each other. When they return to the orphanage, the head of the welfare department begs Larry to help them with Patsy. Larry agrees to adopt Patsy and raise her with the help of Susan, who agrees to marry him and be a mother to Patsy.'
'drama, crime','In the midst of the Great Depression, Alan Squier (Howard), a failed British writer, now a disillusioned, penniless drifter, wanders into a roadside diner in the remote town of Black Mesa, Arizona, at the edge of the Petrified Forest. The diner is run by Jason Maple (Porter Hall), his daughter Gabrielle (Davis), and Gramp, Jason''s father (Charley Grapewin), who regales anyone who will listen with stories of his adventures in the Old West with such characters as Billy the Kid. Gabrielle''s mother, a French war bride who fell in love with Jason when he was a young, handsome American serviceman, left her "dull defeated man" after the war and moved back to France when Gabrielle was a baby. She now sends poetry to Gabrielle, who dreams of moving to Bourges, where her parents first met, to become an artist. Alan tells his story—how he wrote one novel, then lived in France for eight years with his publisher''s wife, trying to write another—and Gabrielle is instantly smitten with him. Gabrielle shows Alan her paintings—the first time she has shown them to anyone—and reads him a favorite François Villon poem. Boze Hertzlinger (Dick Foran), a beefy diner employee who has wooed Gabrielle in vain, grows jealous of Alan, who decides to leave forthwith. He mooches a ride from wealthy tourists Mr. and Mrs. Chisholm (Paul Harvey and Genevieve Tobin); but after only a few minutes on the road they encounter Duke Mantee (Bogart), a notorious gangster fleeing a massive police pursuit, whose car has broken down. Duke and his gang seize the Chisholms'' car and drive to the diner, where Duke has arranged to rendezvous with his girlfriend, Doris, on their way to Mexico. Alan, the Chisholms, and their chauffeur (John Alexander) soon make their way back to the diner as well. Alan, indifferent to the hostage situation, engages Duke in lively conversation and toasts him as "the last great apostle of rugged individualism." Boze snatches a rifle and gets the drop on Duke, but during a momentary distraction Duke draws his pistol and shoots Boze in the hand, regaining control. Duke learns that Doris has been captured, and has revealed their rendezvous location to the police. As police and federal agents converge on the diner, Duke prepares to flee, announcing that he will take Mr. and Mrs. Chisholm with him. Inspired by Boze''s act of courage, Alan has an inspiration: while Gabrielle is in the back room bandaging Boze''s hand, he produces a life insurance policy from his bag and amends it, making Gabrielle the beneficiary. Then he asks Duke to kill him ("It couldn''t make any difference to you, Duke ... they can hang you only once ..."), so that Gabrielle can use the insurance money to realize her dream of moving to France. Duke obliges, then leaves with his human shields. Alan dies in Gabrielle''s arms, secure in the knowledge that she, unlike the rest, will escape her dead-end existence to pursue her dreams.'
'romantic comedy','In London, American caricaturist Jim Crocker (Robert Montgomery) is a popular man-about-town, known by his pen name ''Piccadilly Jim''. He supports his father James (Frank Morgan), an out-of-work actor with a great admiration for Shakespeare, but also with an inability to remember lines from the Bard''s work. Most characters in the film describe James as a ham. Jim lives with his impeccable valet, Bayliss (Eric Blore). Jim is happy when he finds out that his father is to be engaged to Eugenia Willis (Billie Burke), until Eugenia''s overbearing married sister, Nesta Pett (Cora Witherspoon), refuses to give permission for the marriage because she has doubts about James'' sincerity and financial background. One morning, James tries to introduce the Petts to his son, whom he describes as an artist; but Jim, who has stayed out all night drinking, comes staggering in to find that Nesta Pett has discovered that the "artist" is a caricaturist, which does not impress her. Meanwhile, Jim meets Nesta Pett''s niece, Ann Chester (Madge Evans), in a nightclub and falls in love with her. Ann is engaged to Lord Frederick ''Freddie'' Priory (Ralph Forbes) and, therefore, keeps her distance from Jim, despite his several attempts to get to know her better and to woo her. To worsen matters, Jim finds out he is fired because he missed numerous deadlines, and the Petts take Eugenia and Ann with them to the French Riviera for a month, leaving James sad and Jim, who is clueless about Ann''s family connection, wondering where she has disappeared to. Jim then develops a comic strip based on the Petts, mainly Nesta, her husband Herbert (Grant Mitchell), and her son Ogden (Tommy Bupp); and it is a huge hit in England. The strip is titled "From Rags to Riches" and features the Richswitch Family. The strip is an instant success, making Jim financially secure: he uses his new wealth to hire a team of detectives to find Ann. When the Petts return to England, they are recognized as the people from the drawings and are soon the joke of the town, which infuriates them and Ann. Jim, upon learning Ann is the niece of the Petts, hides his identity and poses as the son of his valet Bayliss. He finagles a way to spend a few hours with Ann before her family flees England for the United States, and he works out a way to cross to New York City on the same ship as Ann and Lord Priory. Before leaving England, he tries to cancel the comic strip but learns he doesn''t own the rights to it. He also learns that the strip has been picked up by newspapers in the States. Even though Jim makes the Richwitch Family characters more benevolent, Ann is furious when she finds out that ''Bayliss'' son'' is actually Piccadilly Jim. The Petts are, on the other hand, enjoying their popularity and welcome Jim. Meanwhile, James poses as the Danish Count Olav Osric to impress the family as Eugenia''s lover. Meanwhile, Bayliss suspects that Ann''s fiancée Freddie is not a descendent of the wealthy Priory family as he insists, so Jim tries to discredit Freddie. At a party, he announces that he will "unmask the imposter." James – as count Osric – feels this is addressed to him, so he reveals his true identity and is immediately rejected by the Petts. When he finds out that Freddie is not the liar Bayliss claimed he was, Jim decides to give up his hope of winning Ann''s heart and to return to London. On the ship, when Bayliss encourages him not to give up, Jim realizes Bayliss is right and runs for shore, leaping onto the lowering gangplank, where he bumps into Ann, who by then also realized that she is in love with him. In the end, they kiss.'
'comedy, musical','Due to a misunderstanding, Yale inadvertently invites the small Texas State University to come to Connecticut and play against its football team for a benefit game. Coincidentally, TSU has just hired a new coach, Slug Winters (Jack Haley), who arrives at the college with his wife Bessie (Patsy Kelly) just in time to hear the announcement that the team is to play Yale. The coach digs in to whip the team into shape, with Bessie''s help, she knowing more about football than Slug does. But just before the big game, Bessie causes an accident and the team''s quarterback Biff Bentley breaks his leg. All seems hopeless until Slug and Bessie stumble across an Arkansas hillbilly named Amos Dodd, played by Stuart Erwin, who throws a football like no one they''ve ever seen. They find him tossing melons with his sister, Sairy (Judy Garland). The only problem remaining is to figure a way to get the college to enroll the hillbilly so that he can take the place of the injured quarterback. Amos also falls for attractive student Sally Saxon (Arline Judge), bringing out jealousy in her rich suitor Mortimer Higgens. Texas State travels to the game at Yale, which is played in a blizzard. Yale is leading 7-6 in the final minutes when Slug accidentally knocks himself unconscious on the sideline. Bessie takes over and sends in a play, which hillbilly Amos runs barefoot for the winning touchdown.[2]'
'western, war','With the end of the American Civil War, military industrialists are left with an oversupply of weapons. Some of the more unscrupulous ones view the Indians as possible new customers. Wild Bill Hickok (Gary Cooper) has just been discharged from the Union Army and is making his way back west. On a paddle steamer, he bumps into his old army scout colleague, Buffalo Bill Cody (James Ellison) and his new bride. Later, Calamity Jane (Jean Arthur) is the driver of their stagecoach to Hays City, Kansas. John Lattimer (Charles Bickford), an agent for the gun makers, has supplied the Cheyenne Indians with repeating rifles, which enable them to kill half of the troopers at a United States Cavalry outpost. Hickok discovers the rifles and reports it to General George Armstrong Custer (John Miljan). Custer sends out an ammunition train to the fort with Cody as guide. Hickok tries to locate Yellow Hand (Paul Harvey), the Cheyenne chieftain, to find out why the Indians have gone to war. When Calamity is captured by the Indians, Hickok tries to bargain for her release, but instead gets captured himself. Yellow Hand states that the Indians are fighting because the white man has starting settling land promised to the Indian and is killing off the buffalo. Yellow Hand promises to release his captives if they tell him the location of the ammunition train. After much prodding from Calamity, Hickok professes his love for her just before he is about to be tortured. Calamity then discloses the route of the ammunition train in order to save Hickok from being burned alive. Yellow Hand holds true to his word by releasing his two prisoners. The Indians ambush the ammunition train. Hickok sends Jane to get reinforcements while he fights alongside the besieged soldiers. After a desperate six-day siege on a river bank, the survivors are saved when Custer arrives with the cavalry. Back in town, Hickok catches up with Lattimer and tells him to get ready for a gun duel. Instead of going himself, Lattimer sends three cavalry deserters in his place. Hickok kills all three deserters in the gunfight, but this makes him a fugitive from the law. Hickok flees to the Dakota Territory. Calamity leaves for Deadwood separately when the townspeople find out that she was partly responsible for the attack on the ammunition train. Custer sends Cody after Hickok. After meeting in the woods, the two friends capture an Indian and learn that Custer has been killed at the Battle of the Little Bighorn and that the Cheyenne are moving to join the Sioux Indians in the Black Hills. They also learn that Lattimer is sending more rifles to the Indians, to be picked up in Deadwood. Instead of arresting his friend, Cody rides off to warn the cavalry, while Hickok goes to Deadwood to deal with Lattimer. Hickok kills Lattimer and detains Lattimer''s henchmen for arrest by the cavalry. Hickok is shot in the back by Lattimer''s informant Jack McCall (Porter Hall) while he is playing cards with the henchmen. The film ends with a heart-broken Calamity Jane cradling Hickok''s body.[1]'
'musical','Barbara Barry (Shirley Temple) is the young daughter of wealthy Richard Barry (Michael Whalen), a recently widowed soap manufacturer. Worried that his daughter is spending too much time alone and not with other children her age, her father decides to send Barbara to boarding school. At the train station, Barbara and her accompanying nanny are separated when the nanny Collins (Sara Haden), looking for her stolen handbag, is hit and killed by a car. Barbara, left alone, wanders off and masquerades as an orphan. While wandering the streets, she encounters a friendly Italian street performer, Tony (Henry Armetta), the organ grinder. Barbara follows him home after his performance. She witnesses his many children run out to meet him at the door. Barbara lingers, lonely and sad. The kind and friendly family invite Barbara in. She has dinner with them, where she experiences eating spaghetti for the first time. After dinner, the mother puts her to bed with her own children. She attracts the notice of two vaudeville performers, Jimmy Dolan (Jack Haley) and his wife, Jerry (Alice Faye), who put her in their radio act, posing as their daughter. With the help of advertising executive Margaret Allen (Gloria Stuart), the trio become an overnight success. Barry hears his daughter on the radio and the two are reunited. Subplots involve a romance between Barry and Allen, and a crook (John Wray) trying to kidnap Barbara.'
'comedy','Eustace McGargle (Fields), a con artist, snake oil salesman and exponent of the shell game, tries to escape the sheriff while taking care of his beloved adopted daughter, Poppy (Hudson), who after pretending to be an heiress to win an inheritance, turns out to really be an heiress.[3]'
'drama, mystery','The film deals with a "problem Mr. Roosevelt submitted . . . whether it was possible for a man, weary of faithless friends and a wasted life, to convert a $5,000,000 estate into cash, disappear and start anew in some worth-while activity." (cited from The New York Times – Monday, April 16, 2012)'
'biography','A few short hours after the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln (Frank McGlynn Sr.), Dr. Samuel Mudd (Warner Baxter) gives treatment to a man with a broken leg who shows up at his door. Mudd does not know that the president has been assassinated and the man who he is treating is John Wilkes Booth (Francis McDonald). Mudd is arrested for being an accessory in the assassination and is sent to prison on the Dry Tortugas, described as in the West Indies and referred to in the film as "America''s own Devil''s Island". After a period of ill treatment due to his notoriety, and an unsuccessful escape attempt, his skills as a doctor are requested by the Commandant of the prison. The island has been in the grip of a yellow fever epidemic and the official prison doctor has fallen ill. Dr. Mudd takes charge with the blessing of the Commandant and the cooperation of the soldier guards, and the yellow fever epidemic subsides. In the end he receives a pardon and is allowed to return home.'
'drama','Ellen Neal is hired as servant in the house of the wealthy Winfield family by the butler, Thomas Wroxton, who covets her romantically. Wroxton rules the household staff like a tyrant, demanding a large cut of their weekly wages as his "commission". To his great irritation, Neal resists his advances. Instead, during the family''s vacation in New England she becomes romantically involved with the Winfields'' son, Richard, who is a college student. They secretly marry and she falls pregnant by him before he returns to college. When the Winfields are told by a vengeful Wroxton that she is pregnant they are initially sympathetic until discovering that the child is their own grandson. A prolonged divorce suit then follows until the couple are finally reconciled.'
'musical','An orphan raised by a former slave in the South is forced to live with unfamiliar relatives in the North.[2]'
'comedy','Ramona (Loretta Young), is a half-Indian girl who falls in love with Alessandro, an Indian (Don Ameche).'
'exploitation','Mae Coleman and Jack Perry are an unmarried couple living together and selling marijuana. Mae prefers to sell marijuana to customers her own age, whereas the unscrupulous Jack sells it to teenagers. Ralph Wiley, a psychotic ex-college student turned fellow dealer, and Blanche help Jack sell cannabis to students. Young students Bill Harper and Jimmy Lane are invited to Mae and Jack''s apartment by Blanche and Ralph. Jimmy takes Bill to the party. There, Jack runs out of reefer. Jimmy, who has a car, drives him to pick up some more. Arriving at Jack''s boss'' "headquarters," he gets out and Jimmy asks him for a cigarette. Jack gives him a joint. Later, when Jack comes back down and gets into the car, Jimmy drives off dangerously, along the way running over a pedestrian with his car. A few days later, Jack tells Jimmy that the pedestrian died of his injuries. Jack agrees to keep Jimmy''s name out of the case, providing he agrees to "forget he was ever in Mae''s apartment". Jimmy does indeed escape the consequences of his crime—a rare occurrence in the film. Bill begins an affair with Blanche. Mary, Jimmy''s sister and Bill''s girlfriend, goes to Mae''s apartment looking for Jimmy and accepts a joint from Ralph, thinking it to be a normal cigarette. When she refuses Ralph''s advances, he tries to rape her. Bill comes out of the bedroom after having sex with Blanche and hallucinates that Mary strips for Ralph. He attacks Ralph. As the two are fighting, Jack tries to break it up by hitting Bill with the butt of his gun. The gun goes off and Mary is fatally shot. Jack puts the gun in the hand of an unconscious Bill and wakes him up. Bill sees the gun in his hand and is led to believe that he has killed Mary. The group of dealers lies low for a while in Blanche''s apartment while Bill''s trial takes place. Ralph loses his mind and wants to tell the police who is actually responsible for Mary''s death. The film attributes Ralph''s insanity to marijuana use. Seeking advice from his boss, Jack is told to shoot Ralph so he keeps his mouth shut. Meanwhile, at the apartment, Blanche offers to play some piano music for Ralph to keep his mind off things. They are both very high and Ralph tells her to play faster. Jack shows up and Ralph immediately senses that Jack wants to kill him so he beats Jack to death. The police arrest Ralph, Mae and Blanche. Mae talks and the gang is rounded up. Blanche explains that Bill was innocent and he is released. Blanche is then held as a material witness for the case against Ralph but, rather than testify against him, she jumps out a window and falls to her death. Ralph is put in an asylum for the criminally insane "for the rest of his natural life". The film''s story is told in bracketing sequences at a lecture given at a Parent Teacher Association meeting by the high school principal, Dr. Alfred Carroll. At the end of the film, he tells the parents he has been told that events similar to those he has described are likely to happen again and then points to random parents in the audience and warns that "the next tragedy may be that of your daughter ... or your son ... or yours or yours ..." before pointing straight at the camera and saying emphatically "... or YOURS!" as the words "TELL YOUR CHILDREN" appear on the screen.'
'comedy','Newspapers around the world proclaim the birth of the 3,000th baby in Moosetown, Canada, who was delivered by Dr. John Luke, known for delivering the famous Wyatt quintuplets. To honor the doctor on his retirement and to publicize their town, the Moosetown Chamber of Commerce decides to hold a reunion of all the babies delivered by the doctor. Some of those babies have since become famous. The first baby he delivered, Phillip Crandall, is now a governor. One other is the motion picture star, Janet Fair. Phillip and his wife are childless. Phillip is against adoption because he fears that his opponent in the upcoming election would suggest that the adopted baby was his from the past. He decides to go to the reunion to renew his friendship with Dr. Luke, whom he hasn''t seen since a fishing trip twelve years earlier. When Janet, who is down on her luck, learns from her agent that she has the lead in a New York show, she decides to accept the invitation to the reunion for the publicity she hopes it will bring. In Atlanta, the quintuplets'' father (Asa Wyatt) is upset when his rival (Constable Jim Ogden) excitedly brags that his wife is due any minute to give birth to six babies because two fortune-tellers have told him so. When Jim''s wife gives birth to one baby, Jim is disappointed at first, but as he plays with his new baby daughter he tells her that he''d rather have her than six or sixty babies. After Dr. Luke''s nephew Tony arrives from Tennessee to take Dr. Luke''s position, Tony receives a call from a woman in Toronto. This upsets nurse Mary McKenzie, Tony''s sweetheart. Many of the thousands who come to the reunion throng around Janet, who is pleased to see her old friend, bachelor Charlie Renard. Phillip is attracted to an orphan named Rusty, who Dr. Luke says was born eleven years ago to a woman who died of a broken heart. The mention of the woman''s name greatly affects Phillip. Dr. Richard Sheridan and his wife Gloria then arrive from Toronto, and Gloria (the woman who called Tony) tells him that she plans to divorce Dick. Dick is a workaholic whom she no longer loves. When Dr. Luke (surmising the affair between Tony and Gloria) berates his son, Tony admits that he doesn''t love Gloria. Although Dr. Luke pleads with him to end the affair, Tony refuses, feeling that he owes it to Gloria to carry on. When Dr. Luke tries to convince Gloria that Tony doesn''t love her, but that he loves Mary, she becomes indignant. Dr. Luke then convinces her to freshen up in a bedroom and arranges for Mary to meet Tony in an adjoining room. When Dr. Luke makes Tony admit that an older woman has made a fool of him, Gloria overhears and leaves in an agitated state. Although Tony confesses that he loves Mary, she says she cannot love anyone who could turn his affections off and on at will. At the reunion gathering, Dr. Luke instructs Rusty to repeatedly make a gesture identical to one that Phillip makes. Won over by the boy, Phillip asks Dr. Luke about adoption formalities. When a telegram arrives from Janet''s agent stating that the deal for the role in the New York play is off because the producer wants a younger woman, Janet, who is shaken, goes inside. The gathered then watch as the quintuplets arrive, each in a pony-drawn carriage, and play in a fenced-in enclosure. Dick tells Dr. Luke that he and Gloria, after a long talk, have decided to go abroad for a second honeymoon. Gloria shakes Dr. Luke''s hand. Dr. Luke then learns that Janet has shot herself. Tony takes charge of the operation with Mary as his assistant. After the operation, Tony tells Charlie that Janet will survive if she has anything to live for. Charlie calls her by her real name, Mamie. Then he kisses her face, and she takes his hand. Tony and Mary reconcile. Dr. Luke''s long time nurse, Katherine Kennedy, mildly rebukes him for falsely making Phillip believe that he is Rusty''s father.[1]'
'drama, horror','On the Franco-Austrian Frontier during World War I, an Oriental priest, chaplain of a French colonial regiment, is condemned to life imprisonment because he possesses the power to turn men into zombies. In his prison cell, the priest prepares to burn a parchment containing the location of the secret formula. Gen. Mazovia (Roy D''Arcy) kills the priest and takes the partially burned parchment. After the war, an expedition of representatives from the Allied countries with colonial interests are sent to Cambodia to find and destroy forever the so-called "Secret of the Zombies". The group includes Colonel Mazovia; a student of dead languages, Armand Louque (Dean Jagger); Englishman Clifford Grayson (Robert Noland); General Duval (George Cleveland); and his daughter Claire (Dorothy Stone). Armand falls in love with Claire, who accepts his proposal of marriage to spite Clifford, whom she really loves. Later, when Claire runs to Cliff for comfort following an accident, Armand breaks the engagement, leaving her free to marry Cliff. Further accidents caused by Mazovia result in the natives refusing to work, forcing the expedition to return to Phnom Penh. Armand finds a clue which he had overlooked before and returns to Angkor against orders. After viewing an ancient ceremony at a temple, Armand follows one of the servants of a high priest out of the temple, through a swamp, to a mysterious bronze doorway. When the servant leaves, Armand goes through the door to a room paneled in bronze, with an idol holding a gong. He accidentally strikes the gong, and a panel in the wall opens, revealing a small metal tablet. He translates the inscription and realizes that it is the secret for which they have all been looking. He alone now has the power to make zombies out of people, and begins with a practice run on his servant before using his zombie powers in an attempt to coerce the fickle Claire in the movie''s climax.'
'musical western','Doris Halliday (Frances Farmer), the daughter of a wealthy banker, is about to marry a man she doesn''t love so the family will become richer. Her outspoken aunt Penelope Ryland (Lucile Gleason), the owner of the Frying Pan Ranch in Arizona, objects to their marriage, claiming people should only be married if they love each other. Doris starts to see Penelope''s point and eventually runs away the night before the wedding. Doris hides in the wagon of a train owned by traveling cowboy Jeff Larabee (Bing Crosby). When they meet they take an immediate dislike for each other. Despite a few romantic moments, they fight all night long. The next day, Doris is to be left at a stop. When she is attacked by Jeff''s prize bull, however, Jeff is forced to save her. The train eventually leaves without them. They decide to part their ways, until they discover it''s a long way to the next stop. Doris secretly steals a car and gives Jeff a ride. Penelope and her employee Buck (Bob Burns), who happens to be a friend of Jeff, try to find Doris. They take a train hoping to locate her. On the train, Buck meets Emma Mazda (Martha Raye). Emma is attracted to him and tries to flirt, but Buck isn''t really interested. They both take off at a stop and decide to travel together. Meanwhile, Doris'' father initiates a search to find his daughter and promises the one who brings her back a $5,000 reward. A couple of criminals, who have seen Doris, try to catch her and bring her back. Jeff and Doris drive to his house, where they meet up with Buck and Emma, who are now in love and engaged. Buck suggests Jeff ask to marry Doris as well, but he is reluctant to. The moment they do fall in love, they are located by Robert and Penelope. Penelope blames Jeff for being a gold digger and tries to protect Doris from him. Offended and confused, Jeff runs away. Doris follows him and declares her love. Jeff gives in and they kiss.'
'comedy, crime','Spencer Tracy plays a rough and tough fisherman ("Dutch" Mueller), who leads in a strike with his fellow fishery workers against the "fat-cat" owners of a tuna cannery. The love interest Hattie (Jean Harlow), is also a tuna cannery worker. Her character has a tough exterior with her "bombshell" good looks. Jimmie (Mickey Rooney) is a teenager who is the uncle of the two youngest children. They all live with "Pops" (Roger Imhof), Hattie and his Aunt Lil (Una Merkel) together in the same small, apartment-like "shack" on the wharf. Aunt Lil runs the home. The thuggish cannery owner, Nick Lewis (Joseph Calliea), is also trying to romance Hattie with his money and gifts. He has wealth, Dutch does not. Hattie falls for Dutch in the end, but this antagonism creates many struggles throughout the film. Pete (William Newell) is a family friend, along with many colorful characters. The movie explores some cutting edge sub-themes that were socially current at the time of its release in 1936 release. Some scenes involve a woman having a baby while in prison and a hobo camp deep in the woods.'
'western','In 1848 in California, a Mexican farmer, Joaquin Murietta (Warner Baxter), has turned criminal to avenge the death of his wife, Juanita de la Cuesta (Ann Loring) and brother Jose (Carlos de Valdez) at the hands of the Americans.'
'comedy, horror','It is a bleak and windy night when Jimmy Kelly (Wallace Ford) and Marjorie Burns (Barbara Pepper) check into the Red Rock Tavern with plans to marry as soon as possible. Everyone in the tavern is shocked when a wild dog breaks in through an open window, attacks and kills two of the guests. When they discover that the dog is not the real killer all of the guests begin to panic and suddenly find themselves trapped inside the tavern by locked doors and barred windows. Everyone frantically tries to determine who among them is the killer before another one of them is murdered.'
'western, musical','Marie de Flor (Jeanette MacDonald) is a Canadian soprano performing in Roméo et Juliette in Montreal; the Premier of Quebec is in the audience. Inviting him and his entourage to supper after the performance, she learns from a ''half-breed'' man called Boniface (George Regas), that her brother Jack, supposedly in prison for armed robbery, was wounded as he escaped from prison and has killed a Mountie in the process. Making her excuses, she leaves for the Canadian wilderness with Boniface, hoping to help Jack. At the same time, Sergeant Bruce, of the Mounties (Nelson Eddy) reports to headquarters and receives his latest mission: he must find Jack Flower, believed to be hiding near Lake Chibougam. Marie and Boniface reach an outpost near Lake Chibougam, where Boniface disappears with Marie''s money. Marie falls in with Sergeant Bruce, but Marie cannot tell him the truth for fear of compromising Jack. Marie tries singing at a local cafe to earn some money, but is unused to such boisterous singing and fails to attract any tips. Bruce insists that Marie reports Boniface''s theft, but she cannot admit her real identity, calling herself ''Rose''. But Bruce has recognised her via her voice. They travel together to an Indian ceremony that night. Bruce, despite his strong sense of duty, proves to be a womaniser, and they sing together. Marie finds Boniface and they leave together. But Bruce has discovered that ''Rose Marie de Flor'' is really Jack Flower''s sister and sets off after her, knowing that she will lead him to Jack. Boniface and Marie travel on horseback to Hayman''s Landing where Jack is hiding. Sergeant Bruce, following her, rescues her from drowning as they cross a deep river and Boniface runs off into the forest. Marie haughtily refuses the Sergeant''s help, but realises that she will not reach Jack without that help. She and the Sergeant travel together for the next three days, before she leaves him with a new guide. Marie finds Jack being nursed by Boniface''s mother, and tries to persuade him to reform. She gives him the money necessary to escape and start over. But Bruce appears and arrests Jack. Marie begs him to let her brother go, but the Sergeant is unmoved by her plea. No more is heard of Jack, but Marie, although unwell, returns to opera performance. She has the title role in the opera Tosca. She keeps imagining that she hears "Indian Love Call" throughout the opera and collapses onstage just before the final curtain. She retires to a mountain lodge and refuses to sing for six months. Her manager, Myerson, visits and tells her how disappointed he is not to hear her voice again. After he leaves, she begins singing "Indian Love Call". Myerson urges Sergeant Bruce, who has been waiting in the foyer, to join her, and they sing together.'
'drama, adventure','The film opens with two men in boxing gloves and trunks sparring vigorously. One knocks the other squarely down, concluding their session. Changing out of their exercise gear, the latter dons a natty suit, the former a priest''s collar. The first man is "Blackie" Norton (Clark Gable), a saloonkeeper and gambler. He owns the Paradise Club on Pacific Street in the notorious Barbary Coast. The other is Blackie''s childhood friend, Father Tim Mullen (Spencer Tracy), a Roman Catholic priest. Blackie hires Mary Blake (Jeanette MacDonald), a promising, but impoverished, classically trained singer from Benson, Colorado. She becomes a star attraction at the Paradise, especially for singing "San Francisco" (a song composed for the movie, which became one of the city''s official anthems).[5] The club piano player, "The Professor" (Al Shean), can tell Mary has a professionally trained voice. Mat (Ted Healy), Blackie''s good friend at the Paradise, wisely predicts that Mary is not going to stay on the "Coast". Father Tim makes several attempts to reform Blackie, while the other nightclub owners urge him to run for the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in order to protect their crooked interests. Encouraged by Father Tim, who believes Blackie can use the supervisor position to implement reform, Blackie decides to run for office. Despite Father Tim''s best efforts, Blackie remains a jaunty Barbary Coast atheist, although Blackie secretly paid for the new organ in Father Tim''s church. Blackie''s feelings for Mary intensify, but complications arise when she is offered an opportunity to sing in the opera. Although she initially refuses to break her contract with Blackie, she later leaves the Paradise Club due to the overtly sexual manifestation of Blackie''s feelings for her. Mary is hired by the Tivoli Opera House on Market Street. There she becomes involved with Nob Hill scion Jack Burley (Jack Holt). Blackie wants to stop Mary singing at the Tivoli: he arrives the night of her premiere with a process server in tow to shut down the show. However, when he hears her sing he decides not to stop the opera. After her performance, Blackie visits Mary in her dressing room. Realizing she still loves him, Mary forwardly asks him to marry her. Blackie agrees, but their reunion is soon interrupted by Burley, who had proclaimed his love for Mary and proposed to her prior to the show. Blackie, seeing Burley as competition for Mary''s affections, is happy to tell him of their intent to marry. However, as Blackie gloatingly tells Burley of their plans, it becomes clear that Blackie intends to take Mary away from the Tivoli and put her back on stage at the Paradise. Burley appeals to Mary, but Blackie presents Mary with an ultimatum by asking if she wants to marry him or stay at the Tivoli. Mary''s choice is to return to the Paradise. Backstage, before the opening night of her return performance, she asks Blackie if they can set the date for their wedding. Blackie agrees, but wants to postpone getting married until after the election. Father Tim drops in, and is angered by Mary''s skimpy stage costume. He defies Blackie to put her on the stage in front of the rowdy Paradise audience. Mary observes Blackie''s reaction to Father Tim''s statements, and decides to leave with the priest after Blackie strikes him in the face. Mary goes back to Burley and eventually meets his mother (Jessie Ralph) at her Nob Hill mansion. In a private conversation, she confesses her unworthiness, but Mrs. Burley informs Mary that she started out in 1850 as Massie, a simple washerwoman in Portsmouth Square. Mrs. Burley also empathizes that she also once had a "Blackie" in her younger days, but chose to marry the more steadfast elder Burley. This cements Mary''s decision to accept Burley''s proposal of marriage. It is now the evening of April 17, 1906. Burley has called in some favors and had the San Francisco Police Department raid the Paradise, destroying its gambling equipment and running off the patrons. Blackie, distraught about the future of his club, ends up at the city''s annual Chickens Ball.[6] Mary and Burley are in attendance. After performances by acts from the other Barbary Coast clubs, the MC requests the Paradise''s entry. When no one steps on stage, Mary, just having learned of the club''s closing, enters the Chickens Ball competition for the Paradise. She rouses the audience to join in a chorus of "San Francisco", and wins. However, Blackie angrily refuses the prize money, tossing the prize cup and gold coins to the stage floor. He angrily states that Mary had no right to sing on behalf of his club. Embarrassed, Mary is about to leave the ball with Burley. Then, at 5:13 a.m. April 18, 1906, the earthquake hits the city. The city is devastated and hundreds are killed. As Blackie wanders the city searching for Mary, he comes upon Mat, who was injured at the destroyed Hall of Justice on Washington Street. A nurse indicates to Blackie that Mat is dying. Before he dies, Mat tells Blackie he was wrong about his feelings toward Mary. Blackie then walks to Nob Hill, where he sees Mrs. Burley, who senses her son has died. (Blackie did indeed witness the dead Burley when wandering the devastated streets.) She leaves the area as US Army troops from the Presidio blow up her mansion in preparation making a firebreak. Blackie later meets Father Tim, who takes him to Golden Gate Park, where there is a tent camp for the homeless. There, Blackie hears Mary''s voice lifted in song "Nearer, My God, to Thee" with those in mourning. After seeing Mary, Blackie falls to his knees and thanks God for sparing Mary''s life. From a distance, Mary sees Blackie praying, and as she walks toward him, word spreads through the camp that "The fire''s out!" As people shout about building a new San Francisco, Blackie and Mary join the crowd (a surprisingly multi-racial group, given the era of the film) as they leave the park marching arm-in-arm, singing "The Battle Hymn of the Republic". The film ends with a dissolve from the smoldering ruins into the "modern" San Francisco of the mid-1930s. (Each year when the film is shown near April 18 by Bay Area television stations, the scenes of the 1930s city are replaced with stock news footage of the city in the current year.)'
'comedy, drama','Private detective Ted Shane returns to work with his former partner Ames, who is not particularly happy about the situation because his wife Astrid dated Ted before they were wed. Valerie Purvis hires the detectives to locate a man called Farrow, and when both Ames and Farrow are found dead, Shane is suspected of both murders. Shane finds his office and apartment have been ransacked and his secretary Miss Murgatroyd has been locked in a closet by Anthony Travers, who is in search of an 8th-century ram''s horn rumored to be filled with jewels. Madame Barabbas is also searching for the treasure and sends a gunman to bring Shane to her. Working all sides of the street, Shane makes deals with each of them to find the horn, and eventually winds up in possession of a package allegedly containing it, but it turns out to be full of sand instead of jewels. The police round up all the suspects, but Shane and Valerie escape. He baits her into confessing to Ames''s murder and tries to apprehend her for the $10,000 reward, but Valerie thwarts him by allowing a washroom attendant to turn her in to the police instead. Miss Murgatroyd then shows up and claims Shane for her own.'
'drama, mystery','A Coast Guardsman must rescue his kidnapped girlfriend.'
'comedy, musical','The musical''s story spans about 40 years, from the late 1880s to the late 1920s. Magnolia Hawks is an 18-year-old on her family''s show boat, the Cotton Blossom, which travels the Mississippi River putting on shows. She meets Gaylord Ravenal, a charming gambler, falls in love with him, and eventually marries him. Together with their baby daughter, the couple leaves the boat and moves to Chicago, where they live off Gaylord''s gambling winnings. After about 10 years, he experiences an especially bad losing streak and leaves Magnolia, out of a sense of guilt that he is ruining her life because of his losses. Magnolia is forced to bring up her young daughter alone. In a parallel plot, Julie LaVerne (the show boat''s leading actress, who is part African-American, but passing as white) is forced to leave the boat because of her background, taking Steve Baker (her white husband, to whom, under the state''s law, she is illegally married) with her. Julie is eventually also abandoned by her husband, and she becomes an alcoholic. Magnolia becomes a success on the stage in Chicago. Twenty-three years later, Magnolia and Ravenal are reunited at the theater in which Kim, their daughter, is appearing in her first Broadway starring role.'
'murder mystery','When millionaire New York City businessman Aaron Lampier (Charley Grapewin) receives a death threat in the mail, he sends for his offspring. Ernie Hyams (Bruce Cabot), a newspaper reporter turned lawyer, is dispatched by MacKelvey (Stanley Ridges), his former editor, to track down Lampier''s daughter Lorraine (Margaret Lindsay). She does not appreciate being dragged away from the nightclub/casino of Frank Penny (Joseph Calleia). She and her perpetually drunk brother Stephen (George Lynn) have also received similar mail. When their brother David is killed in a car crash that night, Ernie soon discovers it was not an accident; a wire cable strung across the road was used to cause it. Ernie is pressured into investigating. Lampier''s will leaves everything equally to his children. If they predecease him, the estate goes to various charities. Stephen is the next victim. An associate of Penny''s is driving Stephen''s car when he is stopped by the police. They find Stephen''s body inside with six shots to the head; the driver claims he did not know it was there when he stole the automobile. Captain Bill Royce (Edward Pawley) of the Homicide Squad arrests Penny, but has to release him for lack of evidence. It turns out that Stephen is still alive and in hiding. By the time Ernie and MacKelvey track him down, though, he has been stabbed to death. Next is Aaron Lampier. A man climbs down to his suite and, after a struggle, flings him over the terrace to his death. To protect Lorraine (to whom he has become attracted), Ernie sets a trap. He spreads the word that she is flying away at midnight, then gathers all the prime suspects at Penny''s nightclub to see her off. Her drink is poisoned, but a doctor is standing by and she is saved. Ernie sadly identifies the killer; MacKelvey was the only one who had the opportunity to slip poison into the liquor. The editor confesses that he needed more money to keep his wife Alicia (Vivienne Osborne) happy. He figured that with the Lampiers all dead, he would be put in charge of one of their businesses. Afterward, Ernie and Lorraine get married.'
'comedy, drama','Kay Brannan (Janet Gaynor) is so bored with her life that she can barely tolerate her family and prospective suitor Elmer (James Stewart). A traffic diversion brings hundreds of Yale-Harvard football players through town. One of them, Robert Dakin (Robert Taylor), a socially prominent surgeon from Boston, asks her for directions to a popular roadhouse and takes her there to join in the fun. Later Bob becomes so drunk that he insists that they have a justice of the peace marry them. Kay is not quite so drunk, but she agrees, eager for any escape from the tedium. The next morning, Bob''s parents (Lewis Stone, Nella Walker) like Kay, but are shocked that Bob, who was to marry socialite Priscilla Hyde (Binnie Barnes) in two weeks, would be so foolhardy. To avoid a scandal, Bob suggests to Kay that they pretend to be happily married for six months and then quietly get a divorce. Although hurt, she agrees, and after a staged "honeymoon" aboard the Dakin family yacht, they return to Boston. Gradually, they begin to fall in love, but they still keep each other at arm''s length. When Priscilla returns from a European holiday, she and Bob begin seeing each other secretly. One night, Kay gets a telephone call from Bob''s clinic urgently summoning him to perform emergency brain surgery on Jimmy, a young patient. When Priscilla refuses to let her speak to Bob over the phone, Kay goes to Priscilla''s apartment to fetch him. Bob starts the operation, but is not sure that he is sober enough to save Jimmy, so he has his colleague Dr. Underwood complete the delicate surgery. At home, Bob feels like a failure. Kay hesitatingly starts to tell him about her feelings, but Priscilla calls and she leaves. She tells Bob''s parents that she is returning home, and a short time later, the local newspaper mentions that Bob is rumored to be leaving for Reno for a divorce. Kay takes a walk and meets Elmer, who proposes, but just then Bob drives up. After telling Kay that he has lost his way to Reno and never wants to find it, they drive off together.'
'comedy','Model "Cookie" Cooke (Ann Sothern) is urged by her unsatisfactorily married practical older sister Gwen (Helen Broderick) to find a wealthy husband. On a modeling assignment she runs into millionaire Dick Smith (Gene Raymond), but assumes him to be a low-earning male model. Dick falls in love with her, but she insists on dating eccentrically mannered Italian aristocrat Baron Enrico (Erik Rhodes). Dick installs another mannered character, his valet Philbean (Eric Blore) in the position of a casting agency president who would then pair Cookie on the same pre-arranged modeling jobs with Dick. Ultimately, Baron Enrico, who is so obsessed with birds that he cannot concentrate on romance long enough to propose, is goaded by Gwen into presenting Cookie with an engagement ring. Forced to act fast, Dick pretends to have attempted suicide by a gunshot to the head and asks Cookie to marry him on his deathbed, but she tastes the "ketchup blood" on his face and then embraces him.[4][5]'
'drama, crime','Bill Fenwick (Richard Dix) is a criminal defense attorney who''s near the top of his career, wealthy from defending gangsters and getting them off, but when he learns from Inspector Perkett (Russell Hicks) that his brother George (Owen Davis, Jr.), an agent for the Justice Department, was killed by notorious racketeer Edward J. Selton (J. Carroll Naish) during a raid to recover a half million dollars in stolen gold bullion, he quits his practice to find his brother''s murderer. On a tip from Bennie Grey (Erik Rhodes), a former client, Bill goes undercover and opens a law office in Quartzburg, Nevada under the name of "Richard Galt", to investigate the sudden gold strike at the formerly closed mine at the Gold Bar Ranch, which may be the stolen bullion "re-mined". In Quartzburg, Virginia Selton (Margaret Callahan), Selton''s sister, arrives to take care of her brother, who was wounded in the shootout that killed George, but the rest of the gang is suspicious of her. Meanwhile, Bill is visited by a Justice Department agent who tells him that they need to find out definitely if Selton is at the ranch before they can raid it. Bill contrives to meet Virginia when she stops for gas and, unaware that she is the Selton''s sister, but knowing that she''s connected in some way to the mine, follows her to Reno, where she picks up Dr. Vic Reynolds (Jed Prouty) at the airport. While they are there, Bill drains the gas from her car to force her to stop on the drive back. When it does, he offers them a ride. At the ranch, while the doctor tends to Selton, Bill plays high-stakes poker with Jim Plummer (Joe Sawyer), who runs the ranch, and the other members of Selton''s gang. Bill returns to the ranch in the next few days, both to see Virginia again and to gather information, but Plummer is suspicious of the supposed small-town lawyer, and has an argument with Selton about what to do about him, in which Selton orders him not to do anything to him. Nevertheless, one of the gang, Dutch (Ray Mayer), takes a shot at Bill while he and Virginia are riding horses, but it''s Virginia who is wounded instead when her horse is shot from under her. The feverish Selton orders Plummer to deck Dutch, to show them all that he''s the boss. Learning that the government is planning a raid at midnight, Bill takes Virginia dancing in Reno, but two of the gang follow them there to watch them. When Bill''s former girlfriend, Judy Taylor (Sheila Terry) and his former client Bennie Grey run into Bill and Virginia, Bill denies that he is "Bill Fenwick"; later the two hoods force the couple to reveal his identity. When Bill and Virginia get back to Quartzburg, Bill locks Virginia up in her car in a garage for her safety, but without explaining exactly why. Virginia smashes through the door with the car and heads back to the ranch. Bill learns from Judy that the gang knows his real identity, and joins up with the Justice Department agents heading out to raid the ranch. When Plummer hears the news about Bill, he makes his move to take over the gang. They tie up Selton, divide the gold and plan to flee the ranch, taking Virginia hostage, but Selton gets loose and confronts Virginia and Plummer, calling them all "rats" who have double-crossed him. As the Feds arrive, Selton dares Plummer to shoot it out with him, and begins firing. When the gang tries to escape, they are gunned down by the authorities. Bill goes into the ranch house, looking for Virginia, and Selton holds a gun on him. He offers to give himself up to Bill, if Bill will represent him and get him off without the death penalty, but Bill turns down the offer, reminding Selton that he killed his brother. Bill them has the satisfaction of seeing Selton die from his wounds. Bill and Virginia leave together.'
'biography','In Paris in 1860, a distraught man murders his wife''s doctor. Chemist Louis Pasteur (Paul Muni) has been publicizing a theory that diseases are caused by microbes, which doctors should avoid spreading by washing their hands and sterilizing their instruments in boiling water. The doctor did not do this and the wife died of puerperal fever after giving birth. Pasteur is dismissed by France''s medical academy—particularly his most vocal critic, Dr. Charbonnet (Fritz Leiber Sr.)—as a crank whose recommendations are tantamount to witchcraft. Pasteur frankly calls attention to the risks of Charbonnet''s non-sterile methods and correctly predicts that a member of Napoleon III''s royal family who Charbonnet is attending will die of puerperal fever, but Pasteur is the one who is considered dangerous, because his ideas have led to murder. When the Emperor comes down against him, Pasteur leaves Paris and moves to the small town of Arbois. In the 1870s, when the new French government tries to restore the economy after the Franco-Prussian War, they learn that many sheep are dying of anthrax, except around Arbois. They send representatives who learn that, working with a small group of loyal researchers, Pasteur has developed a vaccine against the disease and put it into use locally. The medical academy still opposes him and says Arbois must simply be free of anthrax, so the government buys land there and invites sheep farmers to use it. Pasteur objects strongly, saying the soil is full of anthrax spores, and eventually an experiment is proposed. He will vaccinate 25 of the newly arrived sheep; then they and a control group of 25 others will be injected with blood from a sheep with anthrax. Joseph Lister (Halliwell Hobbes), the pioneer of antiseptic surgery in England, is interested enough to attend, and witnesses Pasteur''s total success as all the vaccinated sheep remain healthy after the other 25 have died. At this point Jean Martel (Donald Woods), a young doctor who was formerly Charbonnet''s assistant but now is a follower of Pasteur, becomes engaged to Pasteur''s daughter Annette (Anita Louise). The celebrations are short-lived, as a rabid dog runs through the town and a man is bitten. As a woman attempts to cure him by witchcraft, Pasteur laments that doctors would have no more chance of success. Moving back to Paris, he makes rabies his next project. He is able to spread the disease from one animal to another by injection, but finds himself unable to detect any microbe being transferred (viruses had not yet been discovered), and the method he used to create the anthrax vaccine does not work. Charbonnet visits the lab to gloat over Pasteur''s failure. He is so certain Pasteur is a quack that he injects himself with rabies—and is triumphant, as he does not get the disease. Pasteur is puzzled, until his wife Marie (Josephine Hutchinson) suggests that the sample may have gotten weak with age. This sets him on the right path at last, giving dogs a series of progressively stronger injections. But before his experiments reach a conclusion, a frantic mother begs him to try his untested treatment on her son (Dickie Moore), who has been bitten by a rabid dog. Risking imprisonment or even execution, Pasteur decides he must try to save the child. During the attempt, a Dr. Zaranoff (Akim Tamiroff) arrives from Russia with a group of peasants who have been exposed to rabies, and who have volunteered to receive Pasteur''s treatment. Annette goes into labor with Martel''s child. The doctor who was to attend her is unavailable, and Martel is urgently needed for the boy. Pasteur searches frantically for another doctor, but the only one he can find is none other than Charbonnet. He begs Charbonnet to wash his hands and sterilize his instruments just this once; Charbonnet finally agrees on condition that if Charbonnet lives another month, Pasteur will retract and denounce all his work on rabies. Both men are honorable enough to respect the agreement. The birth goes well, but Pasteur collapses with a mild stroke. Days later, word comes that Pasteur has permission to treat those of the Russians who are still alive. He attends them in hospital for the first injections using a wheelchair, and later using a cane. The experiment is a success, and now even Charbonnet concedes that he was wrong, tearing up Pasteur''s retraction and asking for the shots for himself. Afterwards, Pasteur hears that he is to be denounced by Lister at the medical academy. He angrily attends, but it was just a way to surprise him. He is praised by Lister, presented with a Russian medal by Zaranoff, and honored by the very doctors who once scoffed at his discoveries.'
'comedy, musical','Barbara "Ching-Ching" Stewart is an orphan living in Sanchow, China. When bandits threaten, she is sent to Shanghai for safety. Accidentally separated from her guide, Ching-Ching finds herself in Shanghai all alone with her dog until she meets a westerner, Tommy Randall, a rich playboy traveling about the world by ocean liner. Ching-Ching then accidentally becomes a stowaway on his ship. When discovered, she is provided for by Tommy and Susan Parker, a passenger on the ship engaged to the son of her traveling companion, Mrs Ruth Hope. Susan and Tommy become romantically involved. Ching-Ching plays Cupid in furthering their romance. The couple realize they adore Ching-Ching and want to do the best for her after learning she will be put off the ship and sent to an orphan''s asylum. Susan breaks her engagement with Richard Hope, Ruth''s son, after discovering his selfish nature and marries Tommy. The two adopt Ching-Ching.'
'drama','In 1914, American showgirl Suzanne Trent (Jean Harlow) is in London, hoping to meet and marry a man with money. She tells her friend Maisie (Inez Courtney) she can charm any man she chooses into marrying her, and then learn to love him. She sets her sights on Terry Moore (Franchot Tone), an Irishman she sees in a borrowed Rolls-Royce. She soon learns he is not wealthy, but he has a respectable job and good prospects, being an engineer, inventor, and pilot. They quickly fall in love and marry. But then they stumble on a German plot, and her husband is shot by a mysterious woman (Benita Hume), who leaves immediately. The landlady arrives moments later and hysterically calls for police, accusing Suzy of murder. Suzy also flees the scene, and therefore does not learn that Terry is expected to survive. Maisie has moved to Paris, and Suzy now follows her, taking a job at the same cabaret just before World War I begins. Thinking she is a widow, Suzy is heartbroken, until she meets the famed French flying ace Andre Charville (Cary Grant) at the cabaret. Again they quickly fall in love and get married. Andre''s aristocratic father, Baron Edward Charville (Lewis Stone), welcomes Suzy into the family home, but is concerned about the whirlwind romance and marriage because Andre has had many short-lived relationships with women. After Andre is recalled to the front, Suzy bonds with the old man, even inventing letters from Andre that she pretends to read to him. The Baron''s concern was justified: when Andre returns briefly to Paris, he is more interested in socializing with his fellow pilots—and their girlfriends—than taking the opportunity to see the wife he has not even told them about. The Baron covers for him, but makes sure Andre and Suzy do meet for a few minutes as he returns to the front. Andre is wounded in action, and Suzy goes to comfort him. There she is shocked to meet Terry, who is delivering to Andre''s squadron new British fighters he helped design. She explains to Terry what happened, but tells him she now loves Andre. Terry is incensed at her for not telling Andre she was already married to him, and for having run away. He assumes she never loved him. Suzy goes to Andre to tell him the truth—and has another shock, finding him in a compromising position with the woman who shot Terry. Unable to think clearly, she returns home to Paris, where she finds a magazine photo of Andre with the woman. Her name is Diane Eyrelle and she has been "caring for" Andre during his recovery. Obviously she is actually spying on him. Suzy returns to the air base and tells Terry what she has learned. He is dubious but agrees to take action. Suzy points out that as Andre is a public figure, for the sake of morale they should try to avoid damaging his reputation. So they first confront Andre, but Diane hears them, and as the four argue, her henchman comes in and shoots Andre. Andre was about to return to active service and is scheduled to take off immediately on a dangerous mission. Terry says he can fetch a doctor or take over the flight, but has no time to do both. Andre says to fly the mission. Terry takes his revenge, killing Diane and her henchman by strafing their car, then shooting down the German fighters meant to ambush Andre. He botches the landing and crashes near the chateau where Andre now lies dead. Suzy and Terry move his body so it will seem he died in the crash. At the funeral that follows, even a German flyer pays homage. The movie ends with Terry being ordered to see the ace''s widow back home to Paris.'
'comedy, musical','John "Lucky" Garnett (Fred Astaire) is a gambler and dancer. He is set to marry Margaret (Betty Furness), but his friends hold him up so that he is late for the wedding. Margaret''s father phones to call off the wedding, but Lucky doesn''t get that message. His friends bet him that he will not be getting married, and he agrees to the bet. Margaret''s father tells Lucky that he must earn $25,000 to demonstrate his good intentions. He and his friend "Pop" Cardetti (Victor Moore) try to buy train tickets, but his friends take his money – because he lost the bet. So they hitch the first freight train to New York. Broke, they wander around the city. Lucky meets Penny (Ginger Rogers), a dance school instructor, when he asks for change for a quarter. It''s his lucky quarter and Pop feels bad that Lucky lost it. They attempt to get it back, but Penny is in no mood to deal with them. When she drops her things, Pop sneaks the quarter out of her purse, and she thinks Lucky did it. They follow Penny to her work. To be able to apologize, he has to take a dancing lesson from her. She''s still furious at him. After a disastrous lesson, Penny tells him to "save his money" since he will never learn to dance. Her boss, Mr. Gordon (Eric Blore), overhears her comment and fires her. Lucky dances with Penny to "prove" how much she''s taught him. Not only does Mr. Gordon give Penny her job back, he sets up an audition with the owner of a local venue. They check into the same hotel where Penny is staying. Lucky does not have a tuxedo to wear to the audition. He tries to get a tuxedo off a drunk man, but he ends up losing his own clothes instead. They miss the audition, and Penny gets mad at Lucky all over again. Lucky arranges another audition. He and Pop picket in front of Penny''s door until she gives in and forgives him. But they cannot audition because the club has lost their band leader, Ricardo Romero (Georges Metaxa), to a casino. They go to Club Raymond where Lucky gambles to win enough to get Ricky back. Meanwhile, Ricky declares his feelings for Penny. Lucky is about to win enough to marry Margaret, but he takes his last bet off in time... proving he is no longer interested in her, but in Penny, instead. The club owner bets him double or nothing and they gamble for Ricky''s contract. Upon seeing that the club owner intends to cheat, Pop cheats as well, and Lucky wins the contract. Lucky and Penny dance at the club. They are dancing together all the time, but Lucky does not trust himself around Penny because he feels guilty about not telling her about Margaret. He''s avoiding her, which Penny notices, so she and her friend Mabel Anderson (Helen Broderick) conspire to get Lucky and Pop out to the country. Pop lets slip the information about Lucky and Margaret. Despite her best efforts, the two begin a romance, even as Ricky continues to woo Penny. When Margaret shows up, Lucky tries to avoid her; but, too late, Penny finds out. She agrees to marry Ricky. Margaret calls off her engagement to Lucky before he can. Lucky successfully stops Penny''s wedding. And the two end up together, much to everyone''s delight.'
'drama, adventure','Jane''s ((Maureen O''Sullivan) two cousins, Eric and Rita, arrive in Africa to tell Jane about a fortune left to her back in their world and to try to convince her to return with them. They are led to Tarzan''s escarpment home by Captain Fry (John Buckler), a hunter with an agenda of his own. Jane convinces Tarzan to let her go back with Eric (William Henry) and Rita (Benita Hume), promising that their separation will only be temporary. But Captain Fry (John Buckler) (unknown to the others) attempts to capture Tarzan to take him back to civilization so he can be put on public display, and actually succeeds in caging Tarzan. Fry''s treachery includes making a deal with an unfriendly native tribe to give him food, canoes and protection for the journey back in exchange for his handing over Jane, Eric and Rita for "ju-ju" and taking away the greatest "ju-ju" – Tarzan. Fry''s plan goes wrong when the natives capture Tarzan in his cage and all four white people are taken prisoner. Tarzan manages to escape with the help of elephants and Cheeta, and guides what''s left of Fry''s party through a cave passage filled with treacherous quicksands. Just before they exit the caves to safety, Tarzan forces Fry to go back the way they came as punishment for his betrayal. Fry starts to go back, then seizes a heavy branch to attack Tarzan, but before he can exit the cave he falls into a quicksand bog (filled with "poisonous" lizards) and is swallowed up. Rita and Eric tell Jane that it is not necessary for her to return with them and that she belongs with Tarzan. The film ends with Tarzan and Jane reunited at their tree house.'
'western','Sam, Jim and "Wahoo" are outlaws with a sweet racket. Wahoo is a stagecoach driver who feeds information of routes and cargoes of stagecoaches to his outlaw confederates Sam and Jim, who rob the stage and shoot at Wahoo to prove he has nothing to do with the robberies. The three split up one night when lawmen surround their camp and they make their escape but Sam is nowhere to be found. Wahoo and Jim continue their racket until one day a Texas Ranger rides shotgun on the couch next to Wahoo. Jim is supposed to rob the stage when the stagecoach stops to water their mules but Wahoo has a feeling about the Ranger and won''t let Jim rob the stage, instead bundling a mystified Jim on board as a paying passenger. Wahoo and Jim realise their lives have been saved when the Ranger quickly kills two other robbers. Needing money and impressed by the Ranger''s reputation, Jim and Wahoo join the Rangers with the pair planning to use the position to enrich themselves. When sent to locate cattle rustlers Jim and Wahoo discover they are led by Sam who agrees that teaming up to work both ends against the middle will make all of them rich. However Wahoo and Jim begin to have second thoughts when they take on a group of hostile Indians who have murdered the family of young David whom they look after. Jim gets a strong reputation among the Rangers when he saves their company from annihilation by a large Apache war party. Jim becomes so trusted he is sent to singlehandedly[4] brings a murdering town boss by arresting and prosecuting him. Jim originally plans to install Sam is the new town boss but changes his mind and has Sam promise to leave the area. Sam begins a reign of terror but Jim seems too noticeably reluctant to bring him to justice.'
'comedy','Theodora Lynn (Irene Dunne) is a Sunday school teacher and former church organist in Lynnfield, Connecticut, raised by two spinster aunts, Mary (Elisabeth Risdon) and Elsie Lynn (Margaret McWade). She also happens to be, under the pen name Caroline Adams, the secret author of a bestselling book that has the straight-laced Lynnfield Literary Circle in an uproar. The book is serialized in the local newspaper, and the Literary Circle, led by outraged busybody Rebecca Perry (Spring Byington), forces the newspaper''s owner Jed Waterbury (Thomas Mitchell) to stop printing the salacious installments. Theodora travels to New York City on the pretext of visiting her black sheep Uncle John (Robert Greig), but actually goes to see her publisher Arthur Stevenson (Thurston Hall). Though Stevenson reassures an anxious Theodora that only he and his secretary know her identity, his wife Ethel (Nana Bryant) pressures him into an introduction, which the book''s illustrator Michael Grant (Melvyn Douglas) overhears. Intrigued, Michael invites himself to dinner with the Stevensons and Theodora. Theodora becomes annoyed when Michael smugly assumes that she is a teetotaler, so she orders a whiskey. As the night goes on, she becomes drunk. So does Ethel, forcing Arthur to take his wife home and leaving Theodora alone with Michael. When he makes a pass at her, she panics and flees, much to his amusement. Michael tracks her to her hometown, and his whistling is immediately noticed outside her house. Because she technically is not supposed to know anyone outside of Lynnfield, he coerces her into hiring him as a gardener, thus scandalizing her aunts and providing Rebecca Perry with ample information for gossip. Michael declares that he is going to break Theodora out of her confining routine, ignoring her protests that she likes her life just the way it is. Despite herself, she enjoys herself when Michael makes her go berrypicking and fishing with him. Finally, she finds the nerve to tell the disapproving women of the Literary Circle that she loves him. When she tells Michael what she has done, he is less than thrilled. The next day, Theodora finds that he has gone back to New York and left her. She tracks him to his Park Avenue apartment. He admits he loves her, but then his father (Henry Kolker), the lieutenant governor, shows up, followed by Michael''s wife Agnes (Leona Maricle). The estranged couple only have remained married to avoid causing a political scandal for Michael''s father. Theodora determines to free Michael just as he had done for her. He wants her to hold off until his father''s term ends in two years, but she is unwilling to wait that long. She courts publicity by revealing herself as the true Caroline Adams. She is staying in Michael''s apartment even though he has moved out to get away from her, and she tells the press of her intention to publish a new book that details finding romance in her small town and searching for someone who will call her "baby" – a story that mimics her relationship with Michael. Meanwhile, Michael denies to the press that he has even met Theodora. She finally crashes the governor''s ball and arranges for reporters to photograph her embracing Michael. Agnes seeks a divorce to avoid looking like a fool. Theodora returns to Lynnfield and is warmly welcomed as a celebrity, even by her now-supportive aunts. She causes further talk when she brings a newborn baby with her. When Michael, now divorced, sees the child, he tries to flee, but then Theodora reveals that the baby belongs to Rebecca Perry''s own secretly married daughter.'
'drama','Following graduation, college friends Karen Wright and Martha Dobie transform Karen''s Massachusetts farm into a boarding school with the assistance of wealthy benefactor Amelia Tilford, who enrolls her malevolent granddaughter Mary. Karen and local doctor Joe Cardin begin to date, unaware Martha is in love with him. Complications arise when Martha''s aunt Lily Mortar comes for a visit. One evening, Joe falls asleep in a chair in Martha''s room while waiting for Karen to return to the school, leading Lily to jump to the wrong conclusion. When she and Martha quarrel, Lily decides to leave, but not before confronting her niece with her suspicions about the young woman''s true feelings for Joe. Martha discovers Rosalie Wells listening at the door and accidentally closes it on her arm, slightly injuring her. When Mary finds a missing bracelet that belongs to another student among Rosalie''s things, she forces her into revealing what she overheard outside Martha''s room. Mary, who harbors a pathological hatred for her teachers, then tells her grandmother a grossly distorted version of the argument between Martha and Lily, suggesting Martha and Joe engaged in an illicit sexual affair, and she coerces Rosalie into verifying the story by threatening to reveal her theft of the bracelet. Mrs. Tilford is shocked by the revelation and has all the parents withdraw their daughters from the school, leaving Martha and Karen mystified. When one of the girls'' chauffeurs tells the women the reason behind the mass exodus, they confront Mrs. Tilford. Terrified her theft will be revealed, Rosalie insists the story is true. Martha and Karen sue Mrs. Tilford for libel but lose their case when Lily fails to testify on their behalf. She later claims she assumed her corroboration was unnecessary. Although the women have been humiliated and Joe has been dismissed from the hospital due to the scandal, the three hope to repair the damage to their lives. But Karen and Joe go their separate ways when she confesses she believes the story Mary told. Martha admits to Karen she loves Joe but assures her she never told him. Martha decides to leave with Lily, who later mentions the missing bracelet. Realizing what happened, Martha confronts Rosalie and convinces her to reveal the truth. Aware of the wrong she has committed, Mrs. Tilford offers Martha compensation, but Martha asks only that she tell Karen the truth and urge her to reunite with Joe.'
'drama','Airline pilot Jack Gordon (Fred MacMurray) on a flight from New York to San Francisco, is immediately attracted to beautiful passenger Felice Rollins (Joan Bennett). Known as a "lady''s man", he bets stewardess Vi Johnson (Ruth Donnelly) that he will take Felice out to dinner that evening. A jewel robbery is in the news and a beautiful blonde is implicated, with Jack suspecting that Felice may be the culprit. On a stop over in Chicago, Jack learns instead that his passenger is a wealthy socialite at odds with another passenger, Count Stephani (Fred Keating). Jack worries that he may have a crisis involving the Count when he finds Stephani has a gun aboard. Other passengers include Dr. Evarts (Brian Donlevy) and Curtis Palmer (Alan Baxter, both of whom seem to be harboring a secret. Felice is trying to get to San Francisco in order to prevent her sister from marrying the Count''s brother, but the flight runs into bad weather. Jack and Freddie Scott (John Howard), his co-pilot are persuaded to fly on but are eventually forced to make an emergency landing. Dr. Evarts tells Jack he is a federal agent pursuing Palmer, a notorious criminal, who now takes the opportunity to shoot Freddie and Dr. Everts, commandeering the aircraft. Jack manages to overcome Palmer, and with the help of Felice, is able to take off and fly to San Francisco. When the flight lands, he is able to have his dinner with Felice, collecting his bet, knowing that he will need the money for a marriage licence.'
'western','In a town called New Jerusalem, bandits Bob Sangster (Chester Morris), Doc Underwood (Lewis Stone) and Gus Barton (Walter Brennan) hold up a bank. After a gun battle with the townspeople, the three robbers retreat into the scorching desert. There, they happen upon an ill woman stranded with her child. As the mother dies, she begs the men to take care of her infant. The fugitives want to save the baby -- but to do so, they''ll have to travel back to New Jerusalem, where they are wanted men.'
'comedy','Meek Erwin Trowbridge (Frank McHugh) finally has enough of his sneering brother-in-law, Clarence Dobbins (Paul Harvey), unappreciative boss, greeting card publisher J.G. Carver (Guy Kibbee), and the lack of support of his wife Audrey (Carol Hughes). Erwin goes on a drinking binge and ends up in a hotel bar. When he overhears Charlie (Allen Jenkins), and Frankie (Teddy Hart) bemoaning their bad luck betting on horses, he gives them his pick for the next race. They ignore the drunk, but when Erwin proves right, their friend Patsy (Sam Levene) decides to place the little money they have left on Erwin''s next choice. It wins, as do all his other selections that day, making the jubilant trio rich. They decide to hang onto their newfound goldmine. Patsy tries to do Erwin a good turn by calling his boss and demanding a raise for him as his "manager", but the plan backfires; Carver fires Erwin. Erwin is upset, but Patsy gives him 10% of the winnings and convinces him that he can make more money betting than writing greeting card poems. The next day, Erwin makes his picks, but discards his first choice for the sixth race. This arouses Charlie''s suspicions. His fear about being double crossed infects the other two. Patsy forces Erwin to bet all his winnings on his second selection for that race. However, Erwin had told Patsy''s girlfriend Mabel (Joan Blondell) that he never bet on the horses because he was worried that doing so would take away his ability. The whole gang go to the racetrack to watch the race. Erwin''s discarded choice wins, barely edging his second pick. When they get back to the hotel, Patsy starts beating Erwin. Then they hear on the radio that the winner has been disqualified. This inspires Erwin to punch Patsy back. When Clarence shows up, Erwin punches him too. Following close behind, Carver (desperate to fulfill a contract for Mother''s Day cards) offers Erwin a raise and a new office, which Audrey persuades him to take. Erwin bids the gamblers goodbye, telling them that having finally bet for real, he has lost his knack.'
'comedy','Barbara Penfield (Evalyn Knapp) tries to persuade her father, laundry magnate F. Thorndyke Penfield (Richard Carle), to invest in a business venture proposed by her sweetheart Rodney Randall (Bradley Page). Her father, knowing Randall to be a fortune hunter, refuses and stops her allowance and freezes her bank account. Undeterred from financing Randall, but lacking the cash, Barbara decides to trade in her expensive car for a very cheap one. While she is out on a test drive with a salesman, her car is fraudulently sold by con man "Con" Cornelius (Berton Churchill) who is loitering around the car yard. The buyer, Jerry Bassett (Chick Chandler), is a Penfield Company laundry worker who has just quit after winning best employee award and $1,000. He sets out for the Royal Valley holiday resort and on the road picks up Barbara who, after the cheap car broke down, is hitchhiking to a rendezvous there with Randall. She does not recognize her own car which Bassett is driving, and introduces herself using the false name Beatrice Payne. Arriving at the Royal Valley, Bassett and "Beatrice" book into separate rooms. Later Cornelius and his daughter Prudence arrive. Bassett learns that Beatrice is really Barbara Penfield, the daughter of his ex-employer, and it is confirmed when Penfield himself arrives to put a stop to any further negotiation between her and Randall. Several cases of mistaken identity result between Penfield, Randall, Cornelius, and Bassett, with almost everyone believing the other is rich and manoeuvering to make a deal with him. Meanwhile, police investigator Cogarty is on the trail of the fraudulently sold car and he recognizes ex-convict Cornelius and swindler Randall. Bassett is wrongly arrested for stealing the car, with police compounding the mistaken identity situation. Prudence and Randall marry, and when all the identities are sorted out, Barbara and Bassett announce their intention to do the same and to manage the Penfield business when Penfield retires.'
'drama, war','On the eve of World War I, Austrian stage star Elsa Duranyi (Gertrude Michael) and her English counterpart (Herbert Marshall) plan to be married. But she disappears, and he enters the intelligence service, adopting the identity of a dead man. In Monte Carlo, he encounters his former fiancée only to find out she''s also spying for her country.'
'comedy','Hardworking New York City stockbroker Vic Arnold is elated to announce at a business meeting that Beth Calhoun has agreed to marry him. He invites his best friend, Ben "Pig Head" Bancroft, to come from his home town of Big Bend, Indiana, to be his best man. However, Ben becomes convinced that the much younger Beth is only marrying Vic for his money and that she is secretly still attached to college football star and admirer Joe Roberts, who is about her age. Despite the efforts of his wife Lottie, he accuses Beth of being a gold digger, and her brother Wally and their parents of complicity. Insulted, Beth makes Vic choose between them. Vic refuses to give up his best friend, so Beth gives him back his engagement ring. Later, Ben finds out he was mistaken. Wally returns a $40,000 bracelet Vic gave Beth; he also reveals that Joe, who has repeatedly proposed to Beth, is actually much richer than Vic. However, when Vic opens the jewelry case, it is empty. The Calhouns show up to defend themselves from the insinuation that Beth kept the bracelet. Ben then admits he hid it in order to bring everybody together. He even resorts to putting Wally in a half nelson to get him to stay and listen to his heartfelt apology. In the end, he succeeds in reuniting the couple.'
'romance','A feud between Kentucky clans the Tollivers and Falins has been ongoing for as long as anyone can recall. After an engineer, Jack Hale, arrives with coal and railroad interests, he saves the life of Dave Tolliver, whose injury has developed gangrene. Dave expects to marry a cousin, June, but she takes an immediate shine to the newcomer. Her younger brother Buddie is also impressed with Hale, who begins to educate him and take the boy under his wing. But others from both families do not give this outsider their trust. Upset over the budding romance, Dave sets out after Hale with a rifle but is ambushed by the Falins. The latest round of violence causes June not to want to return home, so Hale sends her to Louisville to live with his sister. A bridge is destroyed by the Falins, causing the accidental death of Buddie. A funeral is held and June returns, newly sophisticated from being in the big city. Family patriarch Buck Falin extends his apologies about her brother. Dave, however, is shot in the back by Wade Falin. The families agree that the feud has gone too far. Hale is befriended by all, and will happily marry June.'
'comedy','Larry Stevens is about to be evicted by landlady Lillie for not paying his rent. He happens to be passing by, as does Julia Wayne, when two halves of a ripped $1,000 bill float down to the street. Up above, gangster Bonelli has been handing out thousands to his girls. One who''s angry with him has torn it and tossed it out the window. Skeeter, a jockey, joins up with Julia and Larry as they discuss what to do with the money. Julia has a $500 debt she needs to repay. Larry wants to use it to enter his horse Hector''s Pal in a big race. The money was stolen from a bank where Larry takes the torn $1,000 bill. A suspicious detective, Flynn, begins to follow Larry, who also attracts the attention of unemployed actor Anthony and bank cashier Bennett, who want a piece of the action. Larry is in love with Julia and wants to help fulfill her dream of performing in a show. A theatrical producer pretends to hire her on talent, but secretly has schemed with Larry to finance the show if his horse wins the race. Julia races to the race track to see how it all turns out.'
'comedy, musical','Chicago socialite Cynthia Drexel arranges for New York City opera star Anthony Allen to sing at a private party for a $15,000 fee but, tired of his arduous performance schedule and the silly promotional stunts devised by his agent Petroff, he flees to his hometown in New Mexico, then his secluded cabin in the Sierra Madres. Determined to make him fulfill his commitment, Cynthia pursues him in her private plane, but he refuses to return with her, despite the efforts of her Uncle Bob and his valet Botts to convince him otherwise. When Cynthia leaves without her suitcase, a now intrigued Anthony returns to Chicago with her belongings. When he arrives at her home, an angry Cynthia criticizes his singing and tells him she has no romantic interest in him as she is engaged Count Raul Du Rienne. Cynthia sues him for breach of contract, but in court Anthony argues he refused to sing for her because she does not appreciate his talent, and the case is dismissed. Outside the courtroom, Uncle Bob tells him her betrothal to Raul is a mistake and all she needs is a good spanking to make her come to her senses. Anthony conceals himself in a doorway, and when Cynthia walks by, he pulls her inside and proceeds to spank her. Petroff calls a press conference at which he announces their union, and the happy couple signs their marriage license.'
'drama','Carrie Snyder (Gladys George) is a prostitute, who is forced out of the fictional southern town of Crebillon, after forming a friendship with a young boy named Paul (Jackie Moran), whose dying mother (Janet Young) is unable to protest against her son visiting such a woman. After Carrie has left town Paul runs away from his abusive father (John Wray), and meets a girl named Lady (Charlene Wyatt) who has run away from a burning trainwreck, not wanting to go back to the people she was with. Carrie comes back for Paul and ends up taking Paul and Lady to New York with her. Carrie gets an apartment and starts a successful chain of laundry stores. Eventually they become very rich and Lady (Arline Judge) grows very attracted to Paul (John Howard). However Paul feels obligated to take care of a young woman named Lili (Isabel Jewell) whose brother''s death he caused (the brother had been pushing Paul to try to get on the train, but when Paul pushed back, the train door closed with the brother on the outside with his coat stuck in the train door, causing him to get dragged along with the train and his legs to be run over). Lilli pretends to love Paul because he is rich, which Carrie is able to see, but which Paul does not. She devises a plan to make Lilli leave, if she will bribe some people to help get Lilli''s true love out of jail, she will leave Paul. They go to break the man out of jail, but they are caught. Lilli is shot dead and Carrie gets sent to jail. An old lawyer friend (Harry Carey) vows to fight for her freedom, but Carrie decides to plead guilty, because she doesn''t want Lady to know about her past (her life as a prostitute would be dragged out in court if her case went to trial) and also because she fears that this damage to her reputation would also be bad for the reputation of the children. The lawyer ends by remarking to Paul''s employer (Dudley Digges) that, "valiant is the word for Carrie".'
'science fiction','John Ellman (Boris Karloff) has been framed for murder by a gang of racketeers. He is unfairly tried and despite the fact that his innocence has been proven, he is sent to the electric chair and executed. Dr. Evan Beaumont (Edmund Gwenn) retrieves his dead body and revives it, as part of his experiments to reanimate a dead body and discover what happens to the soul after death. Dr. Beaumont''s use of a mechanical heart to revive the patient foreshadows modern medicine''s mechanical heart to keep patients alive during surgery. Although John Ellman has no direct knowledge of anyone wishing to frame him for the murder before he is executed, he gains an innate sense of knowing those who are responsible after he is revived. Ellman takes no direct action against his framers; however, he seeks them out, wishing to know why they had him killed. Each dies a horrible death, and in the end it is their own guilt that causes their deaths. Confronting the last two villains, Ellman is shot. Having fulfilled his divine mission to bring about justice, he dies, just before he would have explained death and the afterlife to the curious Dr. Beaumont. Beaumont is warned not to continue his experiments, citing the Biblical Scripture, "For the LORD thy God is a jealous God (Deut. 6:15a)."'
'drama','In Victorian England, Florence Nightingale (Kay Francis) decides to become a nurse, puzzling her upper-class family. She travels to Germany to the only nursing school. The training is arduous, but she endures and graduates. When she returns home, however, no one is willing to employ her. When the Crimean War breaks out, she finally gets her chance. With the help of influential friends and damning newspaper reports on the wretched conditions in the Crimea by Fuller (Ian Hunter), a reporter for The Times, she is permitted to recruit some nurses and lead them to Scutari in Turkey to tend the wounded. There, however, she is bitterly opposed by Dr. Hunt (Donald Crisp), who is in charge of the hospital. She remains undaunted, and soon wins the love of her patients. Each night, she passes through miles of the wards, carrying a lamp, so she can satisfy herself that her patients have all they need. Her tireless efforts greatly reduce the mortality rate. Her fame is spread by the newspapers, and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow writes a poem in her honor. When the opportunity arises, she goes to the front to attend the wounded more quickly. She leaves Sister Colomba (Eily Malyon) in charge at Scutari. Once more, Nightingale faces official opposition to her efforts, instigated by Dr. Hunt. However, she gains the support of Lord Raglan (Halliwell Hobbes), the British commander in chief, and is soon hard at work. When she comes down with cholera, she is attended by Tommy (Billy Mauch), a drummer boy she herself nursed back from the brink of death. While she is only partially recovered, she is surprised when Sister Colomba shows up. The nun informs her that Dr. Hunt replaced her with Ella Stephens, a flighty socialite Nightingale had already rejected as a nurse. Under Stephens'' lax and uncaring leadership, conditions had greatly worsened. Nightingale returns to Scutari and sets things straight. After the war ends, she returns home to England. By this time, even Dr. Hunt has reconsidered his opinion of her work, but his superior, Undersecretary of War Bullock (Montagu Love), remains steadfast in his opposition. Bullock tries to turn Queen Victoria against Nightingale, but the monarch instead shows her approval by presenting Nightingale with a brooch.'
'comedy','Magazine publisher Van Stanhope (Clark Gable) and his wife, Linda, (Myrna Loy) are celebrating their third wedding anniversary. They are very much in love and Van gives Linda a diamond bracelet. However, Van''s secretary, the beautiful Helen "Whitey" Wilson (Jean Harlow), is thought by Van''s mother (May Robson) to be a temptation to Van. Linda refuses to listen to all of her friends and Van''s mother as she trusts Van. In truth, she has all the reason in the world to trust him, as his relationship with Whitey is strictly business. Meanwhile, Whitey''s beau, Dave (James Stewart), is very uncomfortable about her relationship with Van as he calls one night while they''re having dinner to ask that Whitey help him finish work at a party. When Dave asks Whitey to marry him, Whitey refuses, and buries herself further in her work. When Van has to be very secretive to buy J. D. Underwood''s (George Barbier) weekly, for fear that his rival will buy it instead, only Whitey is permitted to know, providing still more conflict between Van and his wife. When Van returns from his business meeting with Underwood, and tells Linda that he has been at the club all day, Linda discovers that he has not been at the club but rather has been out with Whitey, who was merely helping him prepare for his discussion with Underwood. At a skating party, Linda is too sick to skate. As Van and Whitey skate together, Linda hears from one of the wives there that Van and Whitey are most likely having an affair. When Linda and Van get into the car, they fight when Linda requests that Van have Whitey moved to another employer. Van refuses and Linda ignores him for the rest of the evening until she calls him back to make up. Van plans a trip for himself and Linda, but when he learns that Underwood is at a conference in Havana, changes his plans and won''t permit Linda to accompany him while he works. Whitey learns of important information regarding the rival paper, which results in Van bringing her to Havana to close the deal. While celebrating the successful closing of the deal, they develop a drunken attraction to each other but do not consummate this attraction. When Linda calls at 2 am, Whitey answers the phone, and she assumes they are having an affair. Van returns to New York only to have Linda ignoring him entirely and asking for a divorce. Lonely, he asks Whitey to accompany him to Bermuda as a friend, which she, having fallen in love with Van, agrees to. But, realizing that Van will never love her as much as he loves Linda, Whitey visits her on the ship that Linda has planned to take to Europe. Whitey challenges her to go back to Van, telling her that she would be a fool to let him go. After resistance, Linda meets him in his office, and they make up. Whitey is then met by Dave, and they make up as well.'
'drama','At Portland, Oregon, playboy pilot Len Kendrick (Vinton Haworth) lands at the end of a cross-country record flight, met by his father J.P. Kendrick (Charley Grapewin) who owns Amalgamated Air Lines. Len is a media darling, adored by fans for his daring flights. He is in love with Amalgamated stewardess Kay Armstrong (Sally Eilers) who is dating veteran pilot "Wad" Madison (Robert Armstrong). Len dates her sister Penny (Frances Sage) who learns that his hard-drinking and recklessness has caused the death of his co-pilot. Penny knows that he was drinking before the fateful flight and only escaped prosecution by bribing a bartender. She leaves Len who ends up at Amalgamated as a line pilot, being tutored by Wad. Len pursues Kay, and she falls for his charm but asks her sister for advice about marrying him. Realizing that marriage would be a mistake, Penny tells Len that she will expose him; he angrily reacts by knocking her down, fracturing her skull. On an outbound flight, Len attempts to rush Kay into accepting a proposal of marriage but she learns that her sister is seriously injured and in the hospital. Kay asks Wad to fly her back to Portland. On the same flight, Len locks his rival out of the cockpit, takes over the flight and after landing at the airline''s home base, accuses Wad of cowardice and dereliction of duty, resulting in a fistfight between the two men. Wad is fired, but finds out from Penny that Len has a terrible secret to hide. On a flight to Salt Lake City, Len''s aircraft not only has been battling a blizzard for hours, but also experiences engine trouble. Instead of landing, in a repeat of the earlier tragic incident, Len knocks out his co-pilot, and again takes to a parachute, leaving Key and the passengers behind. This time, his parachute fails to open. Wad radios instructions to Kay who takes over the controls and successfully makes an emergency landing. Kay and Wad are hailed as heroes and, after the veteran pilot gets back his old job, takes up where they had left off.'
'drama','In Victorian London, Pamela defies her autocratic father (Donald Crisp), and has a baby out of wedlock with her lover, Gerald Waring (Van Heflin, in his screen debut). Pamela''s pregnant sister Flora (Elizabeth Allan) hears of the death of her young husband, faints, hurting herself, and dies. Pamela raises her illegitimate daughter as her niece and becomes a crusading journalist for women''s rights. Eventually she agrees to marry diplomat Thomas Lane (Herbert Marshall) after being unfairly named as co-respondent in Waring''s divorce. Hepburn''s performance as the defiant young woman is considered the epitome of her feminist characterizations of the 1930s.'
'western','The film opens in the hills of California. Bob Culpepper is a college-educated man from Tennessee, who has chosen the life of a gold prospector. Culpepper witnesses veteran prospector Silas "Solitaire" Carter getting attacked by an intruder, and comes to his defense. The fight results in the intruder''s death and the two new allies decide to bury him. While digging for the grave, they discover a gold-bearing vein. They use the vein to calculate that there is a mother lode of gold in a nearby mountain. Eager to profit from their discovery, Carter and Culpepper head to the nearest town to make a land claim for this area. [2] Before reaching the town, the two partners witness a gang of outlaws who is in the process of robbing a stagecoach. They decide to help the victims and manage to scare off the gang. Among the passengers is a lovely saloon singer, Nellie Brian, and Culpepper is instantly smitten with her. Brian is also attracted to him, but her mother urges her to focus on her next singing gig. [2] At the town, Brian entertains her new boss, Jack Hanway. He is the prosperous owner of a local saloon. Neither Brian, nor her mother realize that Hanway is secretly the leader of the gang of outlaws. [2] Brian eventually confesses her love to Culpepper, and also talks to him about a valuable necklace which the outlaws had stolen from her. Culpepper locates the necklace, at the hands of an outlaw known only by the nickname "Missouri". He forces the outlaw to hand over the necklace to him. [2] Trying to impress Brian and outstage Culpepper, Hanway stages a robbery at his own saloon. His gang are supposed to act as robbers, and Hanway acts as the hero who bravely thwarts their plan. Culpepper figures out the plan and tries to expose Hanway as a criminal. Instead, "Missouri" accuses him of being involved with the stagecoach robbery and being in possession of the loot. With the necklace found in his possession, Culpepper is arrested as a thief and imprisoned. Brian is convinced that Culpepper is a villain. [2] With his rival out of the way, Hanway romances Brian. He gets careless and she overhears his plans to lay claim to the mother lode. Brian tries to alert Carter that he is in danger of losing his gold, but he is too drunk to listen to her. Brian gets another idea of how to ruin Hanway''s plans. She tricks him into delaying to make his land claim, then makes the claim herself. Brian is now the only one with a legal claim to the gold. Carter is shocked to find out about this development and informs Culpepper. Culpepper figures that his love interest has conspired against him, and wants to retaliate. He convinces "Missouri" to help him escape from prison. [2] After escaping, Culpepper abducts Brian and restrains her with a straitjacket. He rides with his captive to the area with the gold. Their time together allows them to clear the misunderstandings between them and declare their own innocence. Realizing that neither of them is a villain, they reconcile and express their love for each other. When arriving at the area of the claim, they are captured by Hanway and his gang. [2] Hanway wants Brian for himself and proposes marriage to her. She accepts, hoping that she may use her new position to help Culpepper. Meanwhile, Carter and "Missouri" arrange a fake execution for Culpepper. They use the opportunity to escape with him back to town. They stop the wedding of Hanway and Brian in time, and expose Hanway as a gang leader. [2]'
'musical','Arye and his daughter Itke are musicians, or klezmorim, who became impoverished and were evicted from their home in Kazimierz Dolny. Arie sees no choice but to embark on a career of a travelling band, but fears for the safety of his daughter on the dangerous roads. Itke solves the problem by disguising herself as a boy and adopts the persona of "Yidl", ostensibly Arie''s son. During their voyages, they meet another pair of merrymakers, the father-and-son duo Isaac and Ephraim Kalamutker, with whom they form a quartet and roam through the Polish countryside seeking engagements. "Yidl" falls in love with Ephraim, who is utterly oblivious to the true sex of his companion. The four are hired to perform in the wedding of young Teibele to the old, rich man Zalman Gold. The bride had to cancel her prior engagement with her true love, Yosl Fedlman, for her late father left many unpaid debts. Yidl takes pity on Teibele and the quartet smuggle her out of the party and have her join them as vocalist. To Yidl''s dismay, Ephraim is enamored with the young woman. Itke reveals her true self to Isaac, who determines to assist her and leaves to locate Yosl. When arriving in Warsaw, the group become a success and are hired to perform in a concert. However, personal tensions between the members run high. Efraim signs a contract with a local orchestra. Teibele''s lost match finally arrives, and they run off together before the show. Yidl, quite by accident, takes her place and recounts her entire story and love for Efraim in song form. She is applauded and signed on a contract for a career in the United States. Having learned the truth, Efraim abandons his commitments and joins her on the ship to New York.'
'drama, crime','Swifty Taylor, a journalist with the Globe Times, hunts for the underworld figure responsible for the killing of a crusading district attorney, murdered by curare-laced dart while attending a prizefight, and of a reporter who had got too close to the truth. Meanwhile, Taylor''s secretary, Julie, hopes to persuade him to settle down and marry her.'
'comedy 2-reeler','The Stooges are in jail when their mother sends them a letter. The letter states that their father (Curly Howard, pulling double duty as both himself and his father) has just become rich via an oil well and is planning to leave their mother and marry young gold digging blonde Daisy (Lucille Lund). The Stooges break out of jail and set off to try to stop the wedding. But since Curly and his father look exactly alike, Daisy ends up marrying the wrong man. The Stooges manage to escape the clutches of the criminals trying to kill them for their father''s oil money, and rescue their father.'
'comedy','Torchy Blane (Glenda Farrell) is handed a telegram, which she reads before realizing that it was actually for Theresa Gray (Natalie Moorhead) the woman sitting next to her on the train. Torchy''s own telegram is from her boyfriend detective Steve McBride (Barton MacLane) announcing that he will have a minister waiting to marry them when she arrives at the train station. When rival reporters jealous of Torchy''s success, decides to get even for repeated news scoops by Torchy, and fearing that her forthcoming marriage to Steve McBride will forever keep them from getting news tips from the police department. Four reporters, Mat, Dud, Mugsy and Pete, decides to play a practical joke on her and conspire to fake the murder of an actor; for the dual purpose of blocking Steve''s marriage to Torchy, and at the same time making her the laughing stock of all newspaper. The reporters hire an actor to play dead and phone Steve with the news. They hope that Torchy will report the death and that a second paper owned by publisher Mortimer Gray (Charles C. Wilson) will embarrass her by printing the truth. A fake broadcast comes to Steve and Torchy while driving to the minister in Steve''s police car. The pair quickly goes to the scene of the crime and Torchy immediately phones her newspaper of the story. A newspaper extra edition, headlining the murder is quickly on the streets. The opposition newspapers print a denial of Torchy''s story. It is later learned that the hoax victim, Harvey Hammond, has actually been murdered and Torchy once again beat other reporters to the story. Several persons are suspects in Harvey''s death including Grace Brown (Anne Nagel) an actress in Hammond''s company, her boyfriend Hugo Brand (Anderson Lawler) and Theresa Gray, Hammond''s ex-lover. Torchy frames Theresa for the murder in order to force a confession from publisher Mortimer Gray, her husband. Mortimer, who knew about the proposed joke, was jealous of his wife''s relationship with Hammond and seized the opportunity to kill him. He confessed to the crime before taking poison. Cleared of any suspicion, Hugo and Grace are married by Torchy''s waiting magistrate, and Torchy and Steve postpone their wedding once again.'
'comedy-drama','Cappy Ricks (Walter Brennan) has returned home from a long voyage at sea only to find that his family and business are not as he left them. His daughter Frankie (Mary Brian) is engaged to a dimwit that he isn''t fond of. His future mother-in-law owns already 51% of his business and has plans even for his prized ship. Cappy Ricks knows he has to end the chaos and set things straight. He brings them all on his ship, as there he can be still the Captain. And as in other movies of that period he needs an uninhabited Island to straighten out the arrogance of the rich ladies and the weakness of sons under mothers dominance.'
'comedy, drama','Joan Barclay as Betsy Cummings takes a job as a secretary, using the alias “Mary Layton”, only to find that her Father (Forrest Taylor as Jerry Cummings) is being cheated by his brokers, Monte Blue as Crone and Jack Mulhall as Jan Jaffin. She steals the diamond, worth fifty thousand dollars, her Father used as collateral for a loan, which the brokers plan to cheat him out of; and, the chase is on, with the crooked loan sharks and police after her. Bruce Bennett (Billed as Herman Brix, one of the movie serials “Tarzans”) as Jimmy Baxter, an honest but broke artist, hides her as a mannequin, and helps her get away, in a stolen car. They just have to keep ahead of everyone after them, until her Father can get back, if he can get back, with the brokers’ crooked henchmen trying to stop him. Out of luck and almost out of time, they all end up in front of a Justice of the Peace, who tries to fathom out the facts, and whether to jail the pair or marry them, before his dinner gets cold.'
'comedy, drama','The story describes a love triangle initiated by Lady Maria Barker (Dietrich), the comfortable but neglected wife of Sir Frederich Barker (Marshall), a top-level British diplomat in the pre-World-War-II era. Maria is faced with the possibility of divorce when Frederick learns that she has had an affair, but he realizes that he has not spent enough time with her and cancels his business plans to take her on a much-needed vacation. Although Frederick provides well for Maria and appears to love her, he has been neglecting her in favor of pursuing his busy diplomatic career. One day when he is in Geneva on important business, she secretly flies to Paris to visit the Grand Duchess, who operates a high-class escort business. By chance, Maria happens to meet Anthony Halton (Douglas), a charming man who lived in India for several years. Although Maria insists that their affair remain anonymous, they are attracted to each other, and they have a brief tryst, during which he calls her "Angel". Intending to have only a simple fling, she tries to end the relationship by leaving him without saying good-bye. However, he has fallen in love with her, and he begins searching for her. Maria manages to avoid being seen by Halton at a horse race, but Halton happens to meet Frederick at a social gathering, and the two of them makes plans for Halton to have lunch with Frederick and Maria. Unable to avoid Halton any longer, Maria pretends not to recognise him when he arrives. In a moment when Maria and Halton are alone together, she makes it clear to him that she has no interest in continuing their relationship and that she considers his presence a threat to her marriage and her reputation. Still in love with her, he offers to meet her in Paris the following week, but she refuses. Meanwhile, tickets have arrived for the vacation to Vienna that Frederick promised Maria. However, he breaks his promise to her when an opportunity arises for him to go to Geneva again for work. Frederick''s mistreatment of Maria is emphasized by his decision to go to Geneva despite Maria''s obvious enthusiasm about the vacation and the fact that the Geneva trip was originally assigned to one of Frederick''s capable assistants. Disappointed by this setback, Maria changes her mind about meeting Halton again, and she asks Frederick to drop her off in Paris on his way to Geneva so she can go shopping. Frederick agrees to this plan despite the fact that he has discovered the affair. However, instead of continuing to Geneva, he goes to the Grand Duchess''s salon to investigate. In a last-ditch attempt to save her marriage, Maria confronts Frederick in the salon and makes it clear to him that she needs more attention. She claims that Angel is another woman who is in an adjoining room, but asks him to believe her without looking in the room himself. Her hope is that he will save her reputation by accepting her word but will spend more time with her in the future. This plan fails as Frederick enters the other room, which is empty, but he proposes a better solution. Finally understanding that he has taken Maria for granted, he humbly offers to cancel his business trip and meet her at the train station to go to Vienna, allowing her to decide whether they will stay together. As he leaves the salon, she immediately catches up to him, and they walk out together to begin their vacation.'
'drama','Colonel John Wister (Ian Hunter) is in charge of a post in the British desert colony of Dickit. While on leave in England he meets and falls in love with the beautiful American Julia Ashton (Kay Francis), whose aviator fiancé died in an aircraft accident. Although Julia does not love John, she likes him and agrees to his marriage proposal. John takes Julia to Dickit, where she meets John''s best friend, Captain Denny Roark (Errol Flynn), and Denny''s sister, Grace (Frieda Inescort), who is secretly in love with John. Denny reminds Julia of her dead fiancé and the two of them fall in love. John discovers this and although he would give her a divorce, he knows that she is too decent to leave him. An uprising by local Arabs means one of the soldiers must fly a suicidal bombing mission. Denny volunteers but as he is saying good bye to Julia, John flies off instead, sacrificing his life so that his best friend and wife can be together.'
'comedy, drama','Tex and his sidekick "Grass" Hopper are delighted to join a travelling music show. When a group of cowboys come in without paying, Tex steps down from the stage, pulls his six gun and holds the audience up until the manager points out the men who did not pay their admission fee. After seeing the way Tex gathers revenue from cheats, the County commissioner offers Tex a job as a tax collector.'
'adventure','When pilot Dick Bennett (Dick Merrill) undertakes a flight in stormy conditions to save a dying girl, he brings the aircraft in, despite warnings that it is too dangerous. Later, he meets socialite Gail Strong (Paula Stone), who is interested in aviation and persuades Bennett''s aircraft engineer friend Bill Edwards (Weldon Heyburn) to try a parachute jump. Her fiancé, Baron Hayygard (Ivan Lebedeff) pledges that he will win the Stanley Trophy Race, to make her keep her promise to marry him, and resorts to desperate measures, knocking out Bennett. When Bennett is unable to fly his untested racer, Edwards takes it up instead, but crashes. Strong realizes she is in love with Edwards, but he is critically injured. A doctor in England has life-saving serum that Bennett and Jack Carter (Jack Lambie) are determined to bring back to save their friend, by making a record-breaking round-trip to London. Coming back through a raging storm over the Atlantic, their aircraft is struck by lightning, disabling their radio. When contact is lost, Coast Guard ships are deployed, but the intrepid flyers make it in.'
'comedy','Jerry Warriner (Cary Grant) returns home from a trip, which he falsely states was to Florida, to find that his wife, Lucy (Irene Dunne), is not at home. When she returns in the company of her handsome music teacher, Armand Duvalle (Alexander D''Arcy), Jerry learns that Lucy spent the night in the country with Armand, after his car, they claim, broke down unexpectedly. Lucy then discovers that Jerry did not actually go to Florida and that he had an artificial tan and had written multiple fake letters to her. Their mutual suspicions result in divorce, During the divorce proceedings, Lucy moves into an apartment with her Aunt Patsy (Cecil Cunningham). She becomes engaged to a neighbour, Oklahoma Dan Leeson (Ralph Bellamy), while Jerry is seen on a date with singer Dixie Belle Lee (Joyce Compton). However, Leeson''s mother (Esther Dale) does not approve of Lucy Warriner. Eventually, Lucy realizes that she still loves Jerry and decides to break off the engagement. However, before she can inform Dan, Armand shows up at her apartment to discuss Jerry''s earlier interruption of Lucy''s singing recital. When Jerry knocks on the door, Armand decides it would be prudent to hide in the bedroom. Jerry wants to reconcile, much to Lucy''s delight, but then Dan and his mother make an appearance. Jerry slips into Lucy''s bedroom to avoid complications, but a fight erupts when he finds Armand already there. When Jerry chases Armand out of the apartment in front of the Leesons, Dan and his mother stalk out. Afterwards, Jerry is seen around town with heiress Barbara Vance (Molly Lamont). To break up this relationship, on the night before the final divorce decree, Lucy crashes a party at the Vance mansion, pretending to be Jerry''s sister. She acts like a showgirl (recreating a risqué musical number she had seen performed by Dixie Belle) and lets on that Jerry''s father ("their" father) had been a gardener at Princeton University, not a student-athlete as Jerry had claimed. Realizing that his chances with Barbara have been effectively sabotaged, Jerry drives Lucy away in her car. Motorcycle policemen stop them on the road, and Lucy, plotting to spend more time with Jerry, wrecks the car. The couple gets a lift to her aunt''s cabin from the policemen. Once there, Jerry admits having made a fool of himself and the Warriners are happily reconciled, just before the clock strikes midnight.'
'comedy, drama','The top reporter on the Chronicle is a woman, "Timmy" Blake, who is engaged to marry Bill Morgan, her editor. Morgan assigns her to investigate the death of wealthy Spencer Wade, who left a note implicating Eugene Forde, his doctor. Timmy believes that the victim''s widow, Arline, is responsible. She goes to nightclub owner Sam Sherman to find out the name of a man Arline was seen with there. It turns out to be Carlton Whitney, a known gigolo. Arline sues for libel when Timmy publishes a story implicating her. She is placed on trial for murder. It turns out Whitney has been blackmailing her, but when Wade suspected her of an affair, his suicide note implicated Forde by mistake. Timmy and Morgan get the story straightened out, and Arline ends up marrying the doctor.'
'drama, crime','A power linesman by trade, Lucky Walden owes gambling debts, plus interest, to crooked gamblers. When they come to make him pay, Lucky hits one with a wrench, killing him. He goes to jail and is sentenced to death. Lucky''s one chance is for his brother Steve to find an eyewitness who can testify that Lucky killed the man in self-defense. When the man is found and corroborates that story, Lucky gets a stay of execution. He then earns a full parole by risking his own life in saving a fellow inmate from some dangerous high-voltage wires. Lucky goes back to his old tricks. He violates his parole, then coaxes Steve into helping him rig the prison''s electrical bars to help him escape. Steve''s girlfriend Kitty is also attracted to Lucky and wants him out of prison. The cops chase Lucky, who, in a twist of fate, is electrocuted by the wires he knows so well. Steve is sentenced to jail himself, and now regrets helping his no-good brother.'
'comedy, drama','Joe Benton (Spencer Tracy) and his wife Anna (Luise Rainer) are suspected of starting a taxi war. Although innocent, they are blamed for everything that has happened and the officials demand that Anna be deported from the United States. While trying to prove their innocence, the couple feels forced to hide. The film also casts a number of popular sports figures including Jack Dempsey, James J. Jeffries, Jim Thorpe, and Frank Wykoff in minor comic roles.'
'comedy, drama','About to serve a 20-year prison sentence for a bank robbery, Jim Mead escapes. He tracks down estranged wife Peggy Melville, a singer, but she flees, moves to a new town and changes her name to Fay Loring, taking a job at a department store. A publicist, Larry Edwards, overhears her singing in the store one day and thinks he can make her a star. He accidentally gets Fay fired, so she takes him up on his offer. Unwilling to show her face in public, for fear Mead will find her, Fay performs as the "Masked Countess," using a fake French accent. Mark Tracey, a reporter, becomes determined to find out the masked woman''s true identity. A stormy relationship develops between them. Mark prints a story with a photograph, and Mead recognizes a ring on the singer''s finger. When the reporter brings along an immigration official demanding to see the French countess''s papers, Fay runs away. In a rural area she crashes her car. Mark, in pursuit, is asked at a gas station if he can give a ride to a "big town girl" who crashed her car. Without her mask, Fay is unrecognized by Mark. As romantic sparks develop between them, Mead turns up and the two men fight. The cops apprehend Mead just in time. Back at the nightclub, the Masked Countess tries to kiss Mark, but he refuses. Fay, delighted by his loyalty, reveals herself to him at last.'
'drama','When passed over for promotion at work in favor of a foreign-born friend, Frank Taylor (Humphrey Bogart), a midwestern factory worker, joins the anti-immigrant Black Legion, a secret white vigilante organization[3] portrayed as related to the Ku Klux Klan. Dressed in black robes and hoods, Taylor and the Legion mount a torchlight raid and burn down the friend''s chicken farm, driving him out of town, so that Taylor can gain the job he believed was his. Soon, however, Taylor''s recruiting activities with the Legion get in the way of his work, and he is demoted in favor of neighbor Mike Grogan (Clifford Soubier). The Legion takes action again, attacking Grogan. Under the continued influence of the Legion, Taylor becomes a brutal racist,[3] and alienates his wife (Erin O''Brien-Moore). He starts drinking heavily and takes up with a loose woman (Helen Flint). When his friend Ed Jackson (Dick Foran) tries to counsel him, a drunken Taylor tells about his Legion activities. Taylor reports the conversation to Cliff, a co-worker and fellow member of the Legion, who initiates a false rumor that Jackson is a woman-beater. On the pretext of punishing him for that offense, the Legion kidnaps Jackson, planning to flog him. Jackson tries to escape. As he is running away, Taylor shoots and kills him; breaking down afterward with guilt and remorse, he exclaims, "I didn''t mean to shoot!"[4] Taylor is arrested for the murder, and the Legion threatens his wife and son to prevent him from implicating the secret group in the crime. Taylor finally tells the truth, resulting in all the members of the Black Legion being convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison.[5]'
'western','On the vast mountainous Montana vista, to the soft strains of a "ride ''em" chorus, horned cattle are quietly herded until raiders divert them. Hearing shots, Dare (Wayne) "This is no time to think" in a tall white hat, and hungry dark-mustached wiry side-kick lightning-rod salesman Dink Hooley (an uncredited Syd Saylor) mis-call "the winning side", add their wild mustangs to confusion and dusty stampede at jerky triple time of original silent film. Rough shrubby terrain provides a dangerous battleground. Seemingly safe across border in next state, Wayne''s cousin Tom Fillmore (John Mack Brown), local "big man," Bank President, and "shining" good sheep of the family surprises the pair, and offers them a job. "People around here spend too much time thinking"; John just fist fights and proposes while Tom''s girl Judy (Marsha Hunt) bandages his eye, "I guess I''ll just marry you" he says. She declines to answer, but says, "You''ve been hurt enough for one day." When a rattler scares her horse, Tom''s somersaults and Dare wins the chase. "I wound up the cat and kicked the clock out" is Dare trying to turn a new leaf and be responsible. Judy asks Tom to take the cook''s apron off Wayne, so the boss does promote his cousin to foreman of the herding. First night out, rustlers attack - empty blankets "Hope it don''t start raining". Dare makes the sale for over $10K, but gets convinced to pay out wages and stay the night to celebrate, proving who is "the best player west of the Mississippi". The bartender serves a deck under the bad guy''s tray of drinks, and Dare loses almost everything. When Dare is late returning, Tom tells Judy the cost was worth every penny to show her Dare''s true nature. She pleads for him to save Dare "You''re smart about these things, smarter than any man I know." He arrives in time to take over playing and catches their trick. Fillmore hands have already left, so the bad guys shoot Tom in the shoulder and pursue the trio. Dink diverts some and catches up to bring the hands back, while the cousins hole up, Dare admitting Tom is the best poker player. Back home after winning the gunfight, Tom tells Judy where Dare is riding out of town, and that he wants to offer him a partnership, so Judy brings the Montana-bound buddies back.'
'comedy','After drunkenly carousing on the town, idle playboy, Jonathan Blair, wakes up to find that Texan Valentine Ransome has spent the night in his mansion. He remembers little of the night and knows little about his houseguest. Valentine is attracted to Jonathan and sets out first to reform and then to marry him, explaining to her horse-breaking uncle Sam that she intends to "slip a bit in his mouth and make him like it". In her way is Jonathan''s girlfriend, actress Carol Wallace. Jonathan is dismayed to discover that his neglected family shipping firm is in dire trouble, and that he will not be receiving his usual check, leaving him broke. Valentine decides to use this news to ignite his ambition. She buys up controlling interest in the company and moves into his home as the new tenant. When he discovers the identity of the new owner, he wrongly assumes she went out with him solely to learn what she could about the company. Furious, he tells her that he will fight to get the company back, but later, to his valet, Butch, he admits he is beaten, as nobody will lend him the money he needs to make the attempt. Butch, who approves of Valentine, informs her of this. She makes Jonathan vice president, but he visits the office only to inform her that Carol has asked him to marry her, and that he has accepted. That afternoon, Valentine tries her best to disrupt the ceremony, with the help of noisy bearded window washers, presided over by an increasingly frustrated Justice of the Peace. Finally, Sam Ransome bursts in and declares that Carol is the mother of his children. The wedding is off, but one of the guests, Mr. Meggs, recognizes Sam and informs Jonathan. The next day, Jonathan outlines to the firm''s receivership board his bold new plan to get the company back on its financial feet. The board members vote to accept his scheme and return control of the business to him. Valentine is pleased by his display of initiative and drive ... until he tells her that the wedding with Carol is back on. In desperation, Butch produces a forged marriage certificate showing that Valentine and Jonathan are husband and wife. Carol leaves in a huff. After Butch informs Valentine of the deception, she continues the masquerade, much to Jonathan''s discomfort. When Butch confesses the truth to Jonathan, however, the tables are turned. She flees from her suddenly amorous "husband". However, at the train station, they make peace and get married for real.'
'comedy, drama','In a Trieste gambling casino, the cynical Count Armalia (George Zucco) tells his snobbish friend Rudi Pal (Robert Young) that the only thing separating aristocrats from peasants is luck. Later, in a waterfront cafe, he decides to prove his point by offering the club''s singer, Anni Pavlovitch (Joan Crawford), money and a wardrobe to stay at an upper class resort hotel in the Alps for two weeks and pose as his friend Anne Vivaldi, an aristocrat''s daughter. When Anni first arrives, she meets Giulio (Franchot Tone), a philosophical postal clerk who has no desire for wealth. She also meets her old friend Maria (Mary Philips), who is happy being a maid in the hotel and warns Anni not to become the victim of Armalia''s joke on his friends. That evening, Anni attracts the attention of Rudi, who is dining with his fiancée, Maddalena Monti (Lynne Carver), her father, Admiral Monti (Reginald Owen), and Contessa di Meina (Billie Burke). Rudi begins to fall in love with Anni, but she is more attracted to Giulio. Hoping to lure Rudi into proposing to her, Anni extends her stay beyond the two weeks while the Contessa, who has been suspicious of her from the beginning, wires Armalia for information on her. When the reply comes through the post office, Giulio reads it and learns the truth, but on the way to deliver it, he meets Anni, who goes to his cottage and realizes that she loves him, but marriage to Rudi would bring the material wealth she craves. Later, she falls and Giulio loses the telegram going to help her. On the evening of an annual costume party at which the hotel guests dress as peasants, Anni snubs Giulio when he offers her flowers, but later confesses her love. She still plans to marry Rudi, though, whom she has finally gotten to propose, after refusing to be his mistress. The next day, Rudi tells Maddalena that he is in love with Anni and she steps aside, then suggests that they dine together that evening. While Maria helps Anni pack, she tells her that she no longer has a heart and that the gaudy red beaded dress she plans to wear is what she is really like. During dinner, Giulio delivers a copy of the telegram to the Contessa, who shows it to Rudi and the others. Maddalena is genuinely sympathetic, and Anni tells Rudi that he should marry his childhood sweetheart because she really is a lady. Finally, after being comforted by Maria, Anni realizes that Rudi did the right thing and she leaves the hotel after the manager demands payment of her bill. When she leaves, taking only her peasant costume from the ball, Giulio is happily waiting for her.'
'comedy, musical','Young horse trainer Sally (Eleanor Powell) befriends Sonny (George Murphy) and Peter (Buddy Ebsen), who have been hired to look after a horse her family once owned. Concerned for the horse''s well-being, she sneaks aboard a train taking the horse and its caretakers to New York City. En route she meets talent agent Steve Raleigh (Robert Taylor) who, impressed with her dancing and singing, sets her on the road to stardom and romance blossoms between the two. A subplot involves a boarding house for performers run by Sophie Tucker, who is trying to find a big break for young Judy Garland.'
'drama, crime','Phyllis Clavering (Louise Campbell), the girlfriend of Captain Drummond (John Howard), is kidnapped. Murderer Mikhail Valdin (J. Carroll Naish) and his sister, Erena Soldanis (Helen Freeman), seek revenge for the death of her husband, sent to the gallows a year ago through Drummond''s actions. Though Valdin could shoot Drummond, he informs the captain that it would be too quick. Drummond and his friend Colonel Nielsen (John Barrymore) are instead given a series of riddles to solve.'
'thriller','Captain Hugh ''Bulldog'' Drummond (Ray Milland) has just returned to England. As he is driving home in the dark, a young woman jumps out in front of his car. He misses Phyllis Clavering (Heather Angel), but she falls to the ground. As he tries to revive her, he hears a shout for help, then gunshots. As he goes to investigate, the woman drives away with Drummond''s car. He is soon able to trace her to nearby Greystone Manor, and when he goes there to meet her, she urges him to help her get out of a desperate situation.[1]'
'action, western','A trucker and a train compete against each other in a race.'
'drama, adventure','Harvey Cheyne (Freddie Bartholomew) is the spoiled son of American business tycoon Frank Burton Cheyne (Melvyn Douglas). He is shunned by his classmates at a private boarding school, and eventually suspended for bad behavior. His father therefore takes his son with him on a business trip to Europe, travelling there by trans-Atlantic steamship. Mid passage, Harvey falls overboard in the Grand Banks of Newfoundland. He is rescued by a Portuguese-American fisherman, Manuel Fidello (Spencer Tracy), and taken aboard the fishing schooner "We''re Here", from Gloucester, Massachusetts. Harvey is shocked the schooner''s captain, Disko Troop (Lionel Barrymore), intends fishing in the Atlantic for three more months. He fails to persuade the captain to take him back to New York nor can he convince him of his wealth; but Captain Disko offers Harvey temporary crew membership until they return to port. Harvey is reluctant to do real work but eventually accepts. Befriended by Captain Troop''s son, Dan (Mickey Rooney), he becomes acclimated to the demanding fishing lifestyle. The We''re Here fills with fish they catch. In the climactic race back to the Gloucester, Massachusetts port against a rival schooner, the Jennie Cushman, Manuel climbs to the top of the mast to furl the sail. However, the mast cracks and he is plunged into the icy sea. Manuel realizes that he is fatally injured because some of the rigging is entangled around his legs underwater; he tells the captain to cut him free from the boat, knowing this will kill him. As Manuel says goodbye to Harvey, who is crying and distraught, the captain cuts the rigging around Manuel, who sinks below the water. Eventually, the schooner returns to port and Harvey is reunited with his father, who is impressed by his son''s greater maturity. The film closes with Harvey and his father commemorating Manuel at a church ceremony, before starting a sailing adventure together.'
'mystery','When Chan''s oldest son, Lee (Keye Luke), is chosen to compete in the Olympics, Chan is proud as can be. Meanwhile, over the skies of Chan''s Honolulu, the "Hopkins plane" is demonstrating an improvement of remote radio control to the US military. However, the aircraft is hijacked by a concealed stowaway, the device stolen, and the test pilot murdered. When Chan, followed by his astute second son, Charlie Jr. (Layne Tom Jr.), tracks down the stowaway, he finds only the man''s body. On the passenger list of the only aircraft to leave Honolulu for the mainland after the incident are Richard Masters (Allan Lane) and Yvonne Roland (Katherine DeMille). Masters was the intended test pilot, only he injured his shoulder and had to be replaced. It turns out, however, he left on the Pan Am Clipper to travel to the Olympics himself as a competitor. Perusing the list, Hopkins (Jonathan Hale) recognizes the name of arms dealer Arthur Hughes (C. Henry Gordon). Several of the suspects head for Germany by steamship. Chan, Hughes and the inventor Cartwright manage to arrive ahead of them by taking the Zeppelin Hindenburg. Aboard the ship Manhattan, Lee Chan suspects Roland of being an "adventuress". He spots her putting a piece of paper in her book, and Hughes taking it. He confides in fellow Olympian Betty Adams (Pauline Moore), Masters'' girlfriend. When the ship docks, German Inspector Strasser, Chan and Hopkins go to question Roland, only to find her gone and her cabin rifled. Chan is reunited with his son Lee when the latter sneaks into the cabin through a porthole to play detective. On the train trip to Berlin, Chan learns that Lee saw Roland borrow a camera from Adams. Hughes overhears the pair speculate that the invention was smuggled off the ship in it. Hughes advises Chan to stop investigating, then spots a gun barrel in a passing car and pushes the pair to safety. A shot strikes their compartment window. Later, Hughes arranges for Adams'' camera to be stolen, but finds nothing inside.[2] A hotel maid tries to steal the invention, hidden in Adams'' candy box, but is foiled by Chan and Strasser. When she runs to the window to warn her accomplices, Charlie substitutes a book for the device without being noticed. Hopkins insists on keeping the candy box in his hotel suite, where he is visited by Hughes. Chan and a policeman break in when they hear gunfire. They find Cartwright on the floor. He claims Hughes accused Hopkins of taking the device to double-cross the stockholders of his company, then after Hughes left, Hopkins took the invention at gunpoint and slugged him. Roland takes the candy box to her employer, diplomat the Honorable Charles Zaraka (Morgan Wallace). When they discover the substitution, Roland surmises that Chan has the device. Zaraka sends Chan a ticket to the opening ceremony. While Chan verbally spars with him and Roland, Lee is kidnapped. Chan allows himself to be taken to Zaraka to exchange the device for his son. Hopkins is brought in to verify it is the invention; he does (even though it is an imitation with a radio beacon inside). Satisfied, Zaraka orders his men to dispose of the Chans when Hughes and his men burst in. Hughes threatens to kill Lee if Chan does not produce the real equipment, but the police arrive just in time to rescue the detective. Hopkins is found unconscious from a gunshot in another room. Cartwright accuses Hughes of the shooting, but Chan proves that Cartwright was responsible for that and also the murder of his accomplice back in Honolulu. Afterward, Lee wins the 100 meter swim.'
'comedy, mystery','While Charlie Chan and his number one son, Lee, are aboard a New York-bound transatlantic liner returning from Germany in their previous adventure (Charlie Chan at the Olympics), they have a run-in with a mysterious woman, named Billie Bronson, who secretes a package in the trunk of the Chans. After the liner docks, Chan and Lee are met at the pier by Inspector Nelson and two rival reporters, Joan Wendall and Speed Patton. Bille, having left the country hurriedly a year ago when sought as a material witness in a political scandal, has returned to "blow the lid off the town." She follows the Chans to their hotel and attempts to regain her package from the trunk, only to be interrupted by Lee. She then goes to the "Hottentot Club", where "candid-camera night" is in full progress, followed by Lee. Already present are Joan and Speed. Billie is mysteriously murdered and Charlie is summoned from a police banquet in his honor. Present in the room with the body are club manager Johnny Burke; club dancer and Burke''s girl-friend Marie Collins and the two reporters. While seeking a motive for the murder, a second killing is discovered in Charlie''s hotel room, the package is missing from Charlie''s trunk and it is realized that it must have contained her diary. Charlie neatly puts together a few scattered clues and then springs a trap to confirm the identity of the killer.'
'drama, adventure','Tom Baldwin and Joe Dugan are two American adventurers who are hired to escort the wife of a Chinese general to Shanghai. She is carrying a priceless diamond. Upon their arrival at the destination, there is a firefight, during which the diamond is stolen. The two Americans round up a group of suspects, but have no luck uncovering the stolen jewel. Among the suspects are Jane Dunn and Katherine Collins, an author named Anthony Durand, and Harvey Dinwiddle. They release the suspects, and then make plans to travel to San Francisco. When they board the ship, they are surprised to find that all of the suspects are also aboard the same ship. As they resume their search for the diamond, Baldwin and Dugan discover that Jane is a US customs agent, who is also searching for the jewel. As the search goes on, Baldwin and Jane fall in love. After their room is tossed, Dugan is killed. Katherine is an insurance investigator, who has uncovered some information, but she is killed before she can pass that information on to Jane and Baldwin. Baldwin is framed for Katherine''s murder, but Jane solves the diamond''s theft and the murders, revealing that Durand and his henchman, Dinwiddle, are the perpetrators. Baldwin and Jane are married by the ship''s captain.'
'drama','Trapeze artists Bob McAvoy and Charles Jerome have a successful act. Both develop a romantic interest in Kay Rogers, who also wants to become a circus performer. Bob is furious when Charlie and Kay are secretly married, knowing that Charlie is also carrying on with Carlotta, the lion tamer. After a fight between the men, Charlie is injured in a fall and believes Bob dropped him on purpose. Plotting his revenge, Charlie pretends to become manager of a new act featuring Bob with Kay, but behind the scenes sabotages the rig. Working without a net, Bob is about to fall into a den of lions, but when Kay tries to save him, Charlie''s conscience gets the better of him. He rescues Bob, but plummets to his own demise.'
'drama','"In a European city in the year 1930," 17-year-old music student Lisa Koslov (Bryan) sees her mother off at the train station, and as she is leaving, is handed an envelope containing two tickets to a piano concert she suspects come from a well-dressed man she thinks may be stalking her. Her friend Hildegard persuades her to attend the concert and realizes the man is the pianist himself, the renowned Michael Michailow (Rathbone). On Lisa''s behalf, Hidegard accepts Michailow''s dinner invitation to Lisa when she has misgivings. There he suavely pleads his loneliness and begs to see her the next day. When she goes to her conservatory lessons instead, she discovers that he has lied to the professor to insinuate himself as her tutor. Michialow kisses Lisa, who despite awareness that the situation is unsavory, responds to the kiss. The third day, when her mother returns, Michialow calls Lisa at home and persuades her to sneak out. He takes her to a seamy cabaret to continue his patient seduction where he won''t be recognized. During a suggestive number sung by tawdry chanteuse Vera Kowalska (Francis), the couple are illuminated in a spotlight as Michailow again kisses Lisa. Vera and Michialow recognize one another and she faints from shock. He tries to leave hastily with Lisa, but Vera shoots him dead. At her trial Vera confesses to the murder but refuses to disclose her motive. As the lawyers are making their closing speeches, her newly discovered suitcase is brought as evidence before the presiding judge (Crisp). When he orders it opened to attempt to determine if it contains mitigating evidence, Vera abruptly decides to give a full statement to the court if the suitcase is not opened and the courtroom cleared of all witnesses and spectators. Vera reveals that in 1912 she was a young diva in Warsaw appearing in an opera composed by Michialow, a womanizer who claimed to be madly in love with her. She left the company to marry soldier Leonide Kirow (Hunter), and three years later was a mother with a husband at war. At her doctor''s advice, Vera attended a charity ball, where she was reunited with her old company, including Michailow. He lured her to a party at his apartment, where she became drunk and passed out. The next morning, while pondering how to tell her husband before gossip reached him, he returned from the front as an amputee, and out of a sense of guilt she remained silent. Michailow bombarded her with letters begging to see her, which she hid from Leonide without answering them, until one day she went to Michailow to warn him to stop. Leonide followed her, and thinking the worse, sued her for adultery. Michialow fled to avoid testifying on her behalf, and she was found guilty, losing custody of her daughter. For fifteen years, reduced to being a cheap singer, Vera searched Europe for Leonide (who had changed his name to Koslov and disappeared) and her child. When she at last located them (the day of the shooting), she learned that Leonid has been dead three years and that he had remarried. Her daughter, who is Lisa, has no idea that the second wife is not her real mother. Vera''s suitcase contains papers proving her statement, and she testified to prevent them from being read in open court, to save Lisa''s reputation and her relationship with the woman she believes is her mother. When open session resumes, all the parties avoid any mention of the details, and while Vera is found guilty, her sentence is mitigated and Lisa is left unaware of the truth.'
'drama','Napoleon Bonaparte (Charles Boyer) launches an unsuccessful seduction of the Countess Marie Walewska (Greta Garbo), who is married to a much older man (Henry Stephenson), but she resists until convinced that giving in will save Poland. After her husband annuls their marriage and Napoleon divorces the Empress Josephine, the pair are free to formalize their happy relationship, but Napoleon shocks her by announcing his decision to wed the Archduchess Marie Louise of Austria for political reasons. While he doesn''t expect it to impact his relationship with Marie, she leaves him, without ever telling him that she is expecting his child.'
'drama, crime','Following his graduation from law school, Senator Robert Maddox''s (Hall) adopted son Paul (Montgomery) is offered a job at Bill Mellon''s (Kruger) law firm. Mellon, an unscrupulous criminal lawyer, is actually Paul''s real father, but he keeps the fact a secret from him. When Paul discovers Mellon''s corruption, he quits and lands a job as assistant district attorney. Soon after taking the position, Paul spearheads a state investigation into legal malpractice. This worries Mellon and prompts him to assign a criminal to implicate those investigating him in a scandal. When the criminal learns about Paul''s birth, he is accidentally shot by Mellon in an effort to conceal the information. Paul successfully prosecutes his own father, who is convicted of second-degree murder because he refuses to discuss the content of the papers over which he and Mitchell were struggling, thus protecting Paul and his mother.'
'action','In the border town of Hernandez, New Mexico, undercover agent Mark Owens (Charles Quigley) is assigned to help the United States Border Patrol break up a well-organized band of smugglers. Hernandez also has a reputation for "quick marriages", just across the border in Mexico, so Mark soon signs on as a pilot on "The Honeymoon Express." "Hot Cake Joe" (Herbert Heywood), who runs a sandwich stand, is an informant for the smugglers and recognizes Mark is a "G-Man". Reporter Nancy Rawlings (Rosalind Keith), looking for a good story, wants to feature Mark as the pilot of the marriage service, but he is very reluctant to be photographed. She begins to suspect that flying is only a cover for smuggling. When Nancy sees him accepting money from cafe owner Kurt Feldon (Russell Hicks), whom she is sure is the head of the smugglers, her suspicions are confirmed. When Joe tells Feldon that Mark is an undercover government agent, he orders "Blast" Reardon (Marc Lawrence), one of his gang, to kill Mark and arranges for Mark to fly "Blast" and his girlfriend to Mexico to get married. Hoping to catch the smugglers in the act, Nancy hides in Mark''s aircraft but, along with Mark, is captured when the aircraft is forced to land at the smugglers'' hideout, the same place that Mark had photographed from the air earlier. Nancy''s editor becomes worried when she does not show up at the newspaper and calls the Border Patrol, who send a rescue team using Mark''s aerial photographs of the hideout. Nancy and Mark manage to escape in his aircraft, but are quickly followed by "Blast". The Border Patrol intercept "Blast" and shoot him down in an aerial dogfight. The smugglers attempt to make a getaway by car, but are also intercepted and gunned down by the Border Patrol. After realizing that they are attracted to each other, Mark and Nancy decide to get married.'
'comedy, musical','Everyone on staff at Tottney Castle knows that the lovely Lady Alyce Marshmorton (Joan Fontaine) must marry soon, so a wager is proposed as to the identity of the lucky man. With all the likely candidates already claimed, young footman Albert (Harry Watson) places a bet on a "Mr. X," someone totally out of the blue. Lady Alyce secretly has a romantic interest in an American no one from her family has yet met. She leaves the castle one day to venture into London, where by chance she encounters Jerry Halliday (Fred Astaire). He is an American entertainer, accompanied by press agent George (George Burns) and secretary Gracie (Gracie Allen), but he is not well enough known to be recognized by Lady Alyce. Jerry is incorrectly led to believe that he is the American that Lady Alyce is in love with. He goes to the castle, encouraged by Albert but discouraged by Keggs (Reginald Gardiner), a scheming butler whose money is on another beau. The closest Jerry can get to Lady Alyce is a castle tour, at least until Albert can sneak him upstairs. False impressions abound, as Jerry also fails to recognize Lady Alyce''s father (Montagu Love), the lord of the manor. He is slapped in the face in a Tunnel of Love, misunderstanding the young lady''s intentions entirely. In the end, however, he and Lady Alyce do find romance.'
'comedy','Henry MacMorrow, a junior partner in the law firm of Parsons, Hilton, Trent and MacMorrow, is assigned the task of obtaining the signatures of various members of the Pemberton family so that a piece of property they own can be sold. While en route by train to the Pemberton home in Aiken, South Carolina, he meets Junior Pemberton, an obnoxious ten-year-old prodigy whose behavior prompts Henry to kick him in the pants when they arrive at the station, much to the dismay of the boy''s sister Toni. Henry arrives at the Permberton home before Toni and Junior, and the rest of the family mistakes him for her fiancé Howard Rogers. She quickly corrects the misunderstanding and soon finds herself liking the amiable lawyer, despite their unpleasant first meeting. Mistakenly believing the millionaire Henry is impoverished and the sole support of his widowed mother, Toni promises to help him financially, but Howard convinces the family Henry is a fraud. The attorney returns to New York City, where he promptly is fired. Anxious to find Henry, Toni convinces the Pembertons their town is being quarantined, and the entire family travels to New York. When Toni learns Henry has lost his job, she vows to help him get it back. She urges her family to sign the documents allowing their land to be sold, and then she and Henry go to the country to obtain the signatures of her Aunts Pitty and Patty and Uncle Goliath. Howard, still certain Henry is a con artist, decides to assess the Pemberton''s property and discovers oil, unaware it''s leaking from his own car. Believing the land is worth a fortune, he persuades the family to sell it to him for $125,000 and convinces them Henry was trying to scam them. Thinking Henry was deceiving her, Toni ends their relationship. Howard discovers the oil was from his car and tries to get his money back, only to discover the Pembertons already have spent it. When he decides to sell the land to Howard, Toni tries to warn him, but he refuses to speak to her, until Pitty and Patty reveal Toni and Henry spent the night in their barn, and Toni pretends he took advantage of her. Her family storms Henry''s apartment and demands he make an honest woman of her, and he willingly agrees to marry Toni.'
'comedy','A clothing manufacturer, Hank (Robert Young) returns from a year in Japan, learning about a new formula for synthetic silk, to discover that his girlfriend Eleanor (Ann Sothern) is engaged to marry another man. Hank persuades her to jilt the new man at the altar. After he and Eleanor get married, Hank comes to dislike the show-business friends of his wife and mother-in-law Gypsy (Cora Witherspoon) who pop up at all hours. And a man named Dillman (Dean Jagger) turns up who claims that Eleanor is actually his legal wife, not Hank''s. Hank is distracted by Vera (Maria Shelton), a friend of Eleanor''s, but in the end pretends to be a cab driver and steers his taxi into a lake, with passenger Eleanor wearing a silk dress Hank gave her that disintegrates in the water.'
'drama','Lan Ying Lin and government agent Kim Lee battle alien smugglers.'
'comedy','Hugo Z. Hackenbush (Groucho Marx) is a veterinarian who is hired as chief of staff for the Standish Sanitarium, owned by Judy Standish (Maureen O''Sullivan), at the insistence of her most important patient, the wealthy Mrs. Emily Upjohn, (Margaret Dumont), who insists on being treated only by Dr. Hackenbush. The Sanitarium has fallen on hard times, and banker J.D. Morgan (Douglas Dumbrille) is attempting to gain control of the sanitarium in order to convert the building into a casino. Judy hopes that Mrs. Upjohn will make a large donation and prevent that from happening. Meanwhile, Judy''s beau, singer Gil Stewart (Allan Jones), who performs in Morgan''s nightclub, has spent his life''s savings on a racehorse named Hi-Hat. His hope is that the horse, which he purchased from Morgan, will win a big race and the money will allow Judy to save the sanitarium. Unfortunately, he now has no money to pay for the horse''s feed, and he and Tony (Chico Marx), who works for the sanitarium, and Stuffy (Harpo Marx), Hi-Hat''s jockey, have to resort to trickery to fend off the Sheriff (Robert Middlemass). Tony raises some money by scamming Hackenbush in the "Tutsi Fruitsy Ice Cream" scene, in which Tony gives Hackenbush a tip on a horse, but all in code, so that Hackenbush has to buy book after book from Tony to decipher the code. At the Sanitarium, Judy''s business manager, Whitmore (Leonard Ceeley) – who is also Morgan''s stooge – suspects Hackenbush is a fraud and attempts to expose him and rattle Mrs. Upjohn''s faith in him by having her discover him in a compromising situation with a blonde floozie (Esther Muir). Hackenbush is saved by Stuffy and Tony, who pose as house detectives and then as paperhangers, who first paste the vamp to the wall behind layers of wallpaper and then hide her under the sofa cushions. Next, Whitmore brings in the eminent Dr. Steinberg (Sig Ruman) from Vienna, whom he hopes will expose Hackenbush as a quack. Hackenbush, Tony, Stuffy and Gil hide out in Hi-Hat''s stable, where Judy soon joins them. Whitmore finally exposes Hackenbush as a horse doctor and Morgan is about to have them arrested when Hi-Hat hears Morgan''s voice and bolts, jumping several obstacles in the way. Gil realizes that Hi-Hat is a jumper, and enters him into the upcoming steeplechase race. Morgan, who witnessed Hi-Hat''s jumping ability, tries to prevent him from being entered in the race. After some difficulty getting past Morgan and the Sheriff, the race begins. Knowing that Hi-Hat is afraid of Morgan, everyone works to make Hi-Hat aware of his presence before reaching the fence.[2][3][4] On the last lap, Hi-Hat and Morgan''s horse wipe out; when they reach the finish line, it appears that Morgan''s horse has won. Stuffy realizes that the mud-covered horses were switched after the accident, and Morgan''s jockey was riding Hi-Hat in the finish, thus making Hi-Hat the winner.'
'drama, crime','In the slums of New York, on the East River just below the Queensboro Bridge, wealthy people live in opulent and luxurious apartments because of the picturesque views of the river, while the destitute and poor live nearby in crowded, cockroach-infested tenements. At the end of the street is a dock on the East River; to the left are the luxury apartments and to the right are the slums. The Dead End Kids, led by Tommy Gordon (Billy Halop), are a gang of street urchins who are already well on the path to a life of petty crime. Members of the gang besides Tommy include, Dippy (Huntz Hall), Angel (Bobby Jordan), Spit (Leo Gorcey), T.B. (Gabriel Dell), and Milty (Bernard Punsly), the new kid on the block in search of friends. Spit is a bit malicious with a cruel streak and initially bullies the newcomer and takes his pocket change. However, Tommy eventually lets Milty join the gang, and he turns out to be both a loyal and generous friend. Tommy''s sister, Drina (Sylvia Sidney), dreams of marrying some dashing, rich stranger who will save her and Tommy from this miserable life of poverty and help prevent Tommy from growing up to be a mobster like Hugh "Baby Face" Martin (Humphrey Bogart), who has returned to the neighborhood to visit his mother and childhood girlfriend. Dave Connell (Joel McCrea), raised on the same street as Martin, recognizes him and warns him to stay away, but Martin contemptuously ignores him. Dave, a frustrated architect who currently works odd jobs, is Drina''s childhood friend. He is having an affair with a rich man''s mistress, Kay Burton (Wendy Barrie). Although Dave and Kay love each other, they know they can''t be together because Dave cannot provide Kay with the kind of lifestyle she desires. Meanwhile, the kids lure Philip (Charles Peck), a rich kid from the apartments, into a cellar where they beat and rob him. When the boy''s father tries to intervene, Tommy winds up stabbing him in the arm. He escapes the police and goes into hiding. Martin is subsequently rejected by his mother (Marjorie Main), who denounces him as a murderer, and repulsed by his ex-girlfriend, Francie (Claire Trevor), who is now a prostitute and "sick" (a coded reference to her suffering late term stages of syphilis[citation needed]). Despondent over the failed visit, he decides to kidnap the rich child for ransom to make the trip back worthwhile. Dave sees Martin and his accomplices planning the kidnapping and again warns him to leave. Martin knifes him and Hunk (Allen Jenkins) pushes him into the river. Managing to pull himself out of the river, Dave pursues the hoodlums, knocking out Hank and chasing Martin on the rooftops before cornering him on a fire escape. Among a hail of bullets, he manages to kill Martin who falls onto the street below. As the police and a crowd of people gather around Martin''s body, the doorman (Ward Bond) recognizes Spit as being a member of the gang that attacked the rich kid''s father and identifies him to Officer Mulligan (James Burke). Spit exonerates himself by informing the police that the man was cut by Tommy, who has returned to say goodbye to Drina before running away. Meanwhile, Kay approaches Dave asking him to go away with her, using the reward money that he received for killing Martin. Dave refuses, and Kay returns to the man whom she doesn''t love, but can provide her with financial security. Tommy hears of Spit''s betrayal and tries to give him the mark of the "squealer", which is a knife wound across the cheek. Before he can do so, Dave intervenes, and he and Drina convince Tommy to surrender to the police. Dave then offers to use his reward money to pay for Tommy''s defense. As Drina, Dave, and Tommy leave with Mulligan, the rest of the Dead End Kids meander off into the night, singing "If I had the wings of an angel, over these prison walls I would fly."'
'drama','Submarine officers Dorgan (Richard Dix) and Mason (Chester Morris) battle on land for the affections of dance-hall girl Carmen (Dolores del Río). She marries Dorgan but makes a play for Mason when her husband is on duty. The romantic rivalry is forgotten when Dorgan must rescue Mason and his crew from a sunken sub.[1]'
'comedy','While serving time in jail, Major Manning wins a mine in New Mexico from a fellow inmate. Upon his release, he hatches a scheme with several of his former associates to use the mine, which he believes worthless, to con rich New Yorkers. His first contact is with his old partner, Steve Dorsey, who has married a wealthy socialite, Nancy. Dorsey listens to Manning''s plan, and agrees to head up the bogus investment company, having become bored with his suburban life. In order to induce the wealthy to invest in their bogus scheme, they hire an unwitting accomplice as their head of their company, Malcolm Winthrop. Winthrop adds legitimacy to the group since he was the financial editor of newspaper in Yonkers. After they hire Winthrop, they convince Nancy to invest most of her money in the scheme. When Winthrop starts to become suspicious of his new partners, he travels to New Mexico to physically inspect the mining operation. He discovers that contrary to what Manning believes, it is actually potentially very profitable. He convinces Nancy to fund the project, and he buys up all the outstanding shares in the mine, gaining total control. By the time Manning understands what is going on, he is shut out of the mine, which turns into a moneymaker. Dorsey is forgiven by Nancy, and the two reconcile.'
'comedy, musical','Eccentric millionaire philanthropist Axel Clark wishes to prove that all people are essentially honest and good. Following his death and as a provision of his will, his lawyers drop wallets on the streets of town that each have $100 in them, with information for contacting the lawyers. The four honest people who return the wallets then find themselves unexpectedly in a sort-of lottery. The first person who could double that sum within one month, through honest means, would inherit Clark''s entire estate. Otherwise, the entire estate would go to Clark''s greedy brother, who is determined to thwart the plan.'
'comedy','Charles Lodge (William Powell), a free-spirited bohemian who lives in a cluttered car trailer, disrupts the well-ordered life of successful, hardworking businesswoman Margit Agnew (Myrna Loy) when he convinces her younger sister Irene (Florence Rice) that she should become an actress. However, Margit is determined that Irene marry the fiancé she (and her mother before) had personally picked out for her sister, the pliable, weak-willed cousin Waldo (John Beal). Fed up with Waldo''s lack of initiative during a four-year engagement, Irene becomes infatuated with Charles. He pretends to return her feelings so he can stay close to Margit. When Margit confronts him, he agrees to never see Irene again if Margit will let him paint her portrait. She reluctantly agrees to three weeks of sittings. As they spend time together, she begins to respond to his decidedly unconventional charms. Meanwhile, Charles tries to teach Waldo to stand up for himself so that he can regain Irene''s regard, but with little luck. When Irene shows up unexpectedly at his trailer, Charles gets her to leave, but she is spotted by Margit. Believing he lied about giving Irene up, she angrily smashes the painting over his head. Charles arranges for a wedding, ostensibly to marry Irene, but actually as a ploy to simultaneously reconcile Irene and Waldo and win Margit''s hand. However, Waldo is nowhere to be seen when Charles is asked if he will take Irene for his wife. He is forced to answer no, and that he is really in love with Margit. She finally admits she loves him too. A drunk Waldo then shows up, punches Charles in the nose and carries a delighted Irene off.'
'comedy','J.B. Ball (Edward Arnold), the third richest banker in America, becomes infuriated after learning that his wife Jenny (Mary Nash) bought a $58,000 sable fur coat without his knowledge. After finding many fur coats in her closet, Ball grabs one which turns out to be, in fact, the offending coat and throws it off his New York City penthouse roof. It lands on Mary Smith (Jean Arthur) while she is riding to work on a double-decker bus. When she tries to return it, he tells her to keep it (without informing her how valuable it is). He also buys her an expensive new hat to replace the one damaged in the incident, causing her to be mistaken for his mistress. When she shows up for work, her straitlaced boss suspects her of behaving improperly to get a coat she obviously cannot afford and fires her to protect the reputation of the Boy''s Constant Companion, the magazine he publishes. Mary begins receiving offers from people eager to cash in on her notoriety. One firm gives her an expensive sixteen-cylinder car, and hotel owner Mr. Louis Louis (Luis Alberni) installs her in a luxury suite, hoping that this will deter Ball from foreclosing on his failing establishment. When Mary goes to an automat for a meal, she meets John Ball Jr. (Ray Milland), J.B.''s son. He is determined to make it on his own and is working anonymously at the restaurant. However, he is fired for giving Mary free food. When Mary finds out he has no place to stay, she invites him to share her enormous suite while he looks for a new job. They quickly fall in love. Meanwhile, as time goes on, her supposed connection to J.B. has disastrous consequences for the stock market. Stockbroker E.F. Hulgar (Andrew Tombes) asks her for inside information about steel from Mr. Ball. The only Ball the confused Mary knows is John Jr., so she consults him. He jokingly tells her it is going down and she passes it along to Hulgar. As a result, everybody begins selling, just as J.B. starts buying, causing J.B.''s company to teeter on the brink of bankruptcy. When Mary, John, and J.B. finally get together and figure out what is going on, John comes up with a bright solution - getting Mary to tell Hulgar that J.B. has cornered the market. Prices shoot up, rescuing the beleaguered financier. The delighted father gives his son a job. John Jr. then asks Mary to be his wife.'
'drama, crime','A gang. A murder. Escape in the country. The bunch of people (5) part of the Capper-Gang find through the dog Bill a house with a blind father and a beautiful daughter, which tries to run the factory alone. It is summer and the agreement to sublet them room in the house brings unexpected activity. The windmill is being repaired, some parts of the facade painted, the fields are againcultivated, the garden has again flowers and after a summer there everything looks brighter, the romances are on, and they feel to be different people. But then one day one of the Capper-Gang appears with the order they have to go back to town. Now the real trouble starts ...'
'romantic comedy','Marge Winton (Marion Davies) is fed up with having to quit job after job to avoid the advances of lecherous bosses. When she goes to the employment agency, she is surprised to discover that she is too beautiful for one position. So she gives herself a makeover, hiding her blond curls under a dark, severe wig, putting on glasses, and wearing a drab, unflattering dress. The disguise works. Book publisher Abigail Belldon (Louise Fazenda) hires her as a secretary for lazy writer Freddy Matthews (Robert Montgomery). Freddy would rather go out and party with his girlfriend Camille Lansing than start on his novel. Abigail has already sold the film rights, and the deadline for delivering the book to the film studio is fast approaching. She figures a plain secretary will be one less distraction. Despite his initial displeasure at Marge''s appearance, Freddy gives in and accepts her. However, Camille keeps taking up too much of Freddy''s time and attention, and Marge begins to fall for him as well. Thus, Marge has plenty of reason to try to sabotage their relationship. When this is discovered, she quits. A complication arises when Freddy decides to rehire her. He shows up at her apartment unexpectedly and sees her without her disguise, so she has to pretend to be her roommate Sadie (Patsy Kelly). They spend the entire evening and part of the morning getting acquainted. With the deadline only days away, however, Marge pretends to go out of town for a couple of weeks. The plan backfires. Instead of writing, Freddie goes after her. Camille finds out and follows as well. Marge has no choice but to show up at the hotel, registering first as the plain secretary, then as Sadie, juggling her two personas to keep Freddie in the dark. She finally gets an outline from him for the last few chapters, which she uses to finish the novel on her own. Since he gave the outline to "Sadie", and she had no opportunity to give it to Marge, Freddie finally realizes that they are one and the same. He decides to marry her anyway.'
'comedy','In turn-of-the-century New York City, con artist Peaches O''Day (West) gets into trouble with the law for trying to sell the Brooklyn Bridge, but Jim McCarey (Lowe), a police captain, likes her enough that he lets her off with a promise from Peaches to leave town.[1] She hatches a scheme instead with the wealthy Van Doon (Winninger) and butler Graves (Butterworth) to perform as a singer, calling herself Fifi, disguised in a black wig. Quade (Lloyd Nolan), a chief of police with political ambitions, makes a pass at "Fifi" and is rejected. In anger, he orders the club closed. Capt. McCarey refuses and becomes Quade''s rival, even persuaded to run against him for mayor. Before giving a speech at Madison Square Garden during the campaign, McCarey is kidnapped. He escapes just in time and the publicity is helpful in his election victory. It turns out that Peaches planned the whole thing, resulting in a romantic relationship with the new mayor of New York.'
'comedy, drama','Cleared of a crime, gangster Charles Gillette seeks vengeance against Mountain City townspeople who sought to put him behind bars, including Colonel Bogardus, owner of an influential newspaper. Gillette buys the Sentinel, rival to the World, and tries to hire star reporter Ralph Houston to be his editor, but Ralph declines. Gillette then uses Ralph''s girlfriend, Vina Swain, to dig up dirt on his enemies. A story on mayoral candidate Horace Mitchell smears his reputation and results in a suicide. Tod Swain, an editor at the World, chastises Vina for her poor judgment. Gillette then sets out to ruin a department store owner by having henchman Beak McArdle arrange an elevator accident that causes deaths as well as serious injury to Ralph. Vina''s own life is in peril when Gillette then orders McArdle to murder her so she can never tell what she knows. Tod helps her return safely, then tricks Gillette into a confession about the elevator accident. The Sentinel is sold to the town, with a recovered Ralph deciding to run it.'
'comedy','Actress Laurine Lynne (Beverly Roberts), unable to get work in the United States, travels to Europe hoping to find employment. She makes a grand entrance at a Viennese hotel, and Rupert (Patric Knowles), one of the waiters, is immediately enchanted by her. He insists on serving her dinner, but angers her when he says that although he admires her a great deal, he can tell from her movie love scenes that she has never known a great love. Joe Craig (Allyn Joslyn), Laurine''s press agent, arrives with the news that because a certain bad actress is married to a count, she has gotten the part that Laurine wanted. He suggests that Laurine marry a title to help her career, and taking his advice, Laurine advertises for a marriage of convenience. Without realizing that it is Laurine who is advertising, Rupert, who is really an impoverished prince, answers the ad. Both are surprised when they learn the identity of their potential mates, but proceed with the marriage. Although they love each other, both are convinced that the other went through with the marriage for selfish reasons: Laurine for the title, Rupert for the money. Nonetheless, when they are forced to spend their honeymoon night in a hotel that was Rupert''s ancestral home, Laurine waits hopefully for her groom to come to bed. Rupert, however, is disgusted by Laurine''s determination to return to Hollywood and her career and, in the middle of the night, leaves the hotel. The next morning, Joe calls with the news that Laurine has been signed to a picture. Her reviews are good, but now the press wants to meet the prince. During a press conference, where Laurine proclaims that she and her husband are madly in love, Rupert unexpectedly appears. He whispers that her love scenes have improved, but before he can explain his arrival, Laurine accuses him of returning for her money. Rupert decides to punish her by spending as much money as possible, although as he reveals to Joe, he is actually depositing an equal sum of money to her bank account. Rupert now has money of his own because he met the conditions of a will stipulating that he must earn a certain amount of money before he inherited a fortune. He announces that he is returning to Vienna and begs Laurine to give up her career and come with him. At first, she refuses, but some time later, she arrives at Rupert''s home, which he has bought back, ready to be his wife.'
'comedy, drama','Judge Hardy (Lionel Barrymore) hopes to be re-elected, but his campaign is put in jeopardy by his opposition of a wasteful public works program.[3] In Carvel (a small, idealized American town) lives the Hardy family of Judge James K Hardy, wife Emily and teenage son Andy (Mickey Rooney). Judge Hardy (Lionel Barrymore) is well admired and respected. However his chances for being re-elected as Judge are threatened when he blocks the construction of a $30,000,000 aqueduct. Spurned, contractor Hoyt Wells and newspaper publisher Frank Redmond swear to block his re-election campaign. Frank agrees to use his paper, The Carvel Star to publish disparaging stories about the family. That evening Hardy daughter Marion returns home from college. Older daughter Joan Hardy Martin moves in as well, after a secret separation from her husband Bill. The family throws a party for returning Marion. At the party they are warned by a Star gossip columnist that only negative stories are going to be published about the family. Later that night teenaged Andy Hardy reluctantly takes his childhood sweetheart Polly to a party, and is pleasantly surprised at what a beautiful woman she has grown into. Marion has also found love in Wayne Trent, an engineer who has come to town to work on the aqueduct. Facing the possibility of her boyfriend losing her job, she questions her father’s decision to block the construction. Meanwhile, Joan confesses to her father that she and Bill are separated after she went to a roadhouse with another man. Although the encounter was innocent, Bill was enraged, and they soon separated. The Carvel Star publishes an article stating that people are calling for Judge Hardy’s impeachment. Judge Hardy attempts to bring contempt of court proceeding against the Star.'
'comedy','Two cases of mistaken identity complicate matters when a woman he believes to be a process server comes across a man she believes to be a criminal. A warrant out on him, Peter Norstrand flees his New York City home and heads north. Hiding out, he is spotted by lodge guest Millicent Kendall, who grips a document when she comes to a room. Peter pulls a gun on her and makes her burn it, unaware that it is actually a marriage license. Millicent is a missing heiress, planning to elope with her fiancé. Peter forces her to spend the night in his cabin so as not to inform on his whereabouts. When she attempts to escape in the snow, he takes away one of her shoes. A sheriff and his deputies begin a search for an actual fugitive, Dutch Nelson, and are mistaken for trappers by Peter, who fires a gun to scare them away. The lawmen respond with machine guns and tear gas. Peter reveals to Millicent that the warrant is just to force him to testify in a friend''s divorce. As she falls in love with him, the real Dutch turns up.'
'romantic comedy','"Honest" Ham Hamilton needs money. A wrestling promoter in London, he places a wager and tells his champion Mike Scanlon to lose on purpose, but Mike wins anyway to impress Marcia Trent, an actress who has bet on him to win. Hamilton ingratiates himself with Marcia and her betrothed, singer Robert Densmore, then sees Robert become suicidally depressed after Marcia leaves him for Mike. On a night In Budapest, a drunken Robert is persuaded by equally inebriated reporter Jim Trask make a play for a nightclub singer, Marietta, and incur the wrath of her jealous beau, Spadissimo. He will be challenged to a duel and that will grant Robert''s wish to die. Trouble ensues when Marietta becomes genuinely attracted to Robert and lies that his mother desperately needs him. Spadissimo takes pity until Marcia informs him Robert has no mother. The duel is on until Hamilton throws himself at the swordsman''s mercy on Robert''s behalf, disguised as his mother.'
'drama, musical','Secret agent Nina Maria Azara (Jeanette MacDonald) is working undercover for the King of Spain (Tom Rutherford) as a singer known as the "Mosca del Fuego" or "Firefly."[4] Despite her love for Captain Andre (Allan Jones), she tricks him so that his general will change the French defensive positions, thus allowing the Duke of Wellington to win the Battle of Vitoria. In the end Nina and Andre leave together for a new life in peace.'
'comedy','The granddaughter of a President of the United States, Lucy Chase Wayne (Kay Francis) discreetly campaigns to gain the presidential nomination for her beloved husband, Secretary of State Stephen Wayne (Preston Foster). She tries to gain the support of rising Senator Gordon Keane (Victor Jory), a victory that would be doubly sweet inasmuch as he is the protégé of her despised arch-rival, Irene Hibbard (Verree Teasdale). Lucy becomes concerned when rumors reach her that Irene intends to divorce her boring Supreme Court Justice spouse, Carter (Walter Connolly), marry Keane, and try to get him elected President. She concocts a scheme to deceive Irene into believing that Carter will be her party''s candidate in the upcoming election (when she knows that he has no chance whatsoever) and force Irene to abort her own plans. Lucy convinces Lavinia Mae Creevey (Louise Fazenda), the narrow-minded, provincial leader of an organization of five million women, to back Carter. To Lucy''s horror, newspaper magnate Ellsworth T. Banning (Grant Mitchell) adds his support, and Carter is indeed offered the nomination. Lucy learns that Prince Boris Gregoravitch (Gregory Gaye), Irene''s ex-husband, is in Washington for negotiations. Learning something interesting from the prince, she has her husband invite the foreign envoy to the dinner in which Carter is to announce his acceptance of the nomination. Gregoravitch is delighted to see Irene and gives her some "good" news. On behalf of his country, he has reached an agreement with the United States in which both sides will recognize each other''s laws. Once the treaty is signed, he and Irene will be considered divorced by the American legal system. Until then however, Irene is technically a bigamist. Lucy blackmails Irene into getting Carter to decline the nomination, leaving the way free for her husband.'
'comedy','Newspaper reporter "Scoops" (Brown) is sent out on assignment, to investigate the failed assassination attempts on Archduke Julio (Harry Davenport). Trying to get the story, he runs into Jane Hamilton (Helen Mack) who is really Princess Helen. He doesn''t realize that she is the story: a princess in exile, in danger of assassination; and, falling in love with "Scoops", while engaged to a prince. The film ends with a wild chase and a shootout with machine guns. The question is, who will survive to tell the tale?'
'drama','Ellis (Onslow Stevens) runs Trans-Andean Air Service, a run-down company transporting supplies from Delgado, a tiny, remote outpost, over the Andes Mountains to some mines. To save money, Ellis uses worn-out aircraft and "black sheep" pilots and crew no one else will employ. He hires George Wilson (Van Heflin), and is surprised when he brings his new wife, Lee (Whitney Bourne). Chief pilot Paul Smith (Chester Morris) tries to get her to leave, but the Wilsons have no money. As time goes on, George proves to be a drunk. Paul protects him as best he can, as he has fallen in love with Lee. She eventually confesses that she loves him.[3] After Hanson (Richard Lane}, an experienced pilot dies in crash witnessed by George, he begins to crack up. When George is too drunk to fly, Garth Hilton (Douglas Walton) takes his place and is killed in yet another crash. Distraught and seeking revenge, George then forces Ellis at gunpoint into an aircraft and takes off. In the mountains, George jumps to his death, leaving Ellis to die like too many others he had hired. Smith is left to take over, but decides to join Lee and leave together. "Mousey" Mousialovitch (Solly Ward), the chief mechanic and former pilot, takes over the operation, with the mine owners promising new aircraft will be delivered.[4]'
'mystery','After his brother is killed on the ice during a hockey game, Alex Ferguson, convinced it was no accident, goes undercover as a new player to discover the truth. Alex falls for Betty Holland, the coach''s daughter. He ultimately learns that team owner Maxwell is in cahoots with gamblers, as are a couple of his players, and coach Joe Holland is in debt to them. Betty takes a job at a newspaper and endeavors to clear her dad''s name while Alex survives a dangerous game, followed by a confrontation with the crooks.'
'musical comedy','Jimmie (Robert Armstrong), a shady bookie, meets Pearl (Irene Hervey), a taxi dance hall girl. He takes her out on a number of dates, pretending to be a high profile producer. She is happy to spend his money extravagantly but refuses to be his girlfriend. To get his revenge, Jimmie promises to make her a Broadway star and becomes her manager. He takes her to expensive dinners and meetings with people in the top entertainment circles. Jimmie tricks Pearl into signing a contract under which most of her earnings go to him. He persuades a defunct Gilbert and Sullivan troupe to re-form, obtains an empty theatre for a night, and fills it by blackmail. They play The Mikado, which is deservedly a hit. Overwhelmed with regret over his deceit, he proposes, and she, overwhelmed with gratitude over his support, accepts.'
'drama','Softball player Ann Casey is tired of wearing athletic clothing and seeking something more glamorous, so she answers a newspaper ad seeking models at a photography studio. A reporter, Jimmy Jones, distracts her while in line and inadvertently costs Ann the job. While she returns to playing softball, Jimmy thinks there might be a story in the team. He finds its owner is a gangster, Foy Harris, then stumbles into a diabolical murder plot involving Foy being disguised as a woman on the team. Foy first kills his partner, then, because she knows too much, murders player Sue Collins by poisoning the laces of her catcher''s mitt. Ann ends up hiding in Foy''s closet, in danger of her life, then used as a hostage before Jimmy arrives to save her, just in time.'
'comedy, musical','When the US Navy rigid airship Macon is damaged in a storm and crashes into the water (as the real USS Macon did in 1935), helmsman Bill Austin stays with his commanding officer until the rest of the crew has gotten safely away. Bill loses a leg as a result of the crash and leaves the Navy. He goes looking for employment, but jobs are scarce in San Francisco. He tries a lumber company run by Lloyd Skinner, interrupting a meeting between Skinner and his fiancee Margaret Ricks. Skinner orders him to leave his office. Matt Peasely, head of a shipping firm in the same building, is more polite, but the answer is still the same. Undeterred, Bill seeks out Cappy Ricks, the retired founder of both companies. While waiting in the reception area, he encounters Margaret again. He assumes she is also a job seeker and makes a date with her, unaware she is Cappy''s only offspring. She sees her father first, and asks him to give Bill a chance. Cappy, who is frustrated with the way Skinner and Peasely have been running the businesses he built up, is quite willing to countermand them. He and Skinner decide to give Bill the hardest task they can think of: selling a half million feet of unwanted skunk spruce Cappy bought years ago as a favor to a friend. Not only does Bill sell all of the spruce, he also generates orders for all of the lumber the company has and more, all in a single business trip across the western United States, forcing Cappy to send him to Seattle to buy the shortfall from a hard-negotiating competitor. Meanwhile, Bill and Margaret fall in love. With his commission from his trip, he buys an engagement ring. When he tells Cappy of his plans, however, the widowed Cappy is adamantly opposed to losing Margaret''s company. He and Skinner go ahead with the "blue vase" test, a test everybody has failed, including Skinner. Cappy telephones Bill and tells him he saw a vase he liked, but could not spare the time to purchase it. He gives Bill instructions to buy it whatever the cost and bring it to him at the railway station by eight o''clock. Cappy and Skinner have pre-arranged all sorts of obstacles to make the task impossible, but Bill overcomes them all, and by hocking Margaret''s ring to help pay the $1000 price of the vase and persuading a Navy pilot friend (on his honeymoon night, no less) to fly him ahead of the already departed train, he succeeds. Cappy is so impressed, he offers Bill a promotion to manager of his Shanghai office. When Bill insists on marrying Margaret immediately so she can accompany him, Cappy does his best to stop him. He buys up all the staterooms in the ship Bill is to take, but Bill and Margaret get married and manage to sneak aboard the ship anyway. Then Cappy receives word that his men have gone on strike, and they trust and will only negotiate with Bill. Cappy sends him an urgent radiogram. When the captain of the ship refuses Bill''s request to turn around, Bill jumps overboard. Margaret follows him, and the captain drops a lifeboat. Cappy finds them rowing back to land. Bill negotiates an end to the strike, and Cappy decides to send Skinner to Shanghai instead. For Cappy''s sake, the couple agree to live in his mansion.'
'drama','In pre-World War I northern China, young farmer Wang Lung (Paul Muni) marries O-Lan (Luise Rainer), a slave at the Great House, the residence of the most powerful family in their village. O-Lan proves to be an excellent wife, hard working and uncomplaining. Wang Lung prospers. He buys more land, and O-Lan gives birth to two sons and a daughter. Meanwhile, the Great House begins to decline. All is well until a drought and the resulting famine drive the family to the brink. O-Lan gives birth to a second daughter but kills her shortly after birth to spare her from starvation. Desperate, Wang Lung considers the advice of his pessimistic, worthless uncle (Walter Connolly) to sell his land for food, but O-Lan opposes it. Instead, they travel south to a city in search of work. The family survives by begging and stealing. When a revolutionary gives a speech to try to drum up support for the army approaching despite rain in the north, Wang Lung and O-Lan realize the drought is over. They long to return to their farm, but they have no money for an ox, seed, and food. The city changes hands, and O-Lan joins a mob looting a mansion. However, she is knocked down and trampled upon. When she comes to, she finds a bag of jewels overlooked in the confusion. This windfall allows the family to go home and prosper once more. O-Lan asks only to keep two pearls for herself. Years pass. Wang Lung''s sons grow up into educated young men, and he has grown so wealthy that he purchases the Great House. Then, Wang Lung becomes besotted with Lotus (Tilly Losch), a pretty, young dancer at the local tea house, and makes her his second wife. He begins to find fault with the worn-out O-Lan. Desperate to gain affection from Lotus, he gives O-Lan''s pearls to Lotus. When Wang Lung discovers that Lotus has seduced Younger Son (Roland Lui), he orders his son to leave. Then a swarm of locusts threatens the entire village. Using a strategy devised by Elder Son (Keye Luke), everyone unites to try to save the crops. Just when all seems lost, the wind shifts direction, taking the danger away. The near-disaster brings Wang Lung back to his senses. He reconciles with Younger Son. On the latter''s wedding day, Wang Lung returns the pearls to O-Lan before she dies, completely exhausted by a hard life. Without disturbing the wedding festivities, Wang Lung quietly exits the house and regards a flowering peach tree planted by O-Lan on their marriage day. Reverently he murmurs, "O-Lan, you are the earth."'
'drama, mystery','Grant Naylor is unhappy because the woman he loves, Ann Randall, wants to instead marry Stephen Danby, a scoundrel. All are surprised during a performance of The Great Gambini when the magician predicts Ann and Danby will never be wed. His prediction comes true when Danby''s dead body is found. Sgt. Kirby questions all of Ann''s family and Grant, and a piece of evidence points them to a man who was using a disguise. Grant believes the detective has the wrong man and discovers it''s been Gambini himself all along. Gambini confesses on stage, but remains confident because Kirby''s handcuffs might not be able to hold him.'
'comedy, drama','In London in 1750, renowned English actor David Garrick announces onstage that he has been invited to Paris to work with the prestigious Comédie-Française. A person in the audience jeers that the French want him to teach them how to act. The playwright Beaumarchais (Lionel Atwill) returns to the Comédie-Française and attributes the remark to Garrick himself. The outraged French actors, led by their president, Picard (Melville Cooper), decide to make him an object of public ridicule. They take over a wayside inn where he will be staying, and Beaumarchais devises a plot intended to humiliate Garrick by frightening him into returning to England. On his way to Paris, Garrick is met by Jean Cabot (Etienne Girardot), an admirer who works as a Comédie-Française prompter. Cabot warns the actor about the plot and advises him to travel straight to Paris, but Garrick decides to continue on to the inn and play along with French actors, despite the misgivings of his servant Tubby (Edward Everett Horton). A complication arises when Germaine Dupont, Countess de la Corbe (Olivia De Havilland), arrives at the inn soon after. Garrick believes she is one of the actresses (and not a very good one), when she is actually fleeing a marriage arranged by her father. She falls in love with Garrick, and he plays along. Meanwhile, the French try to discomfort the Englishman with a sword fight, a shootout between a husband and his wife''s lover, a mad waiter (Luis Alberni), and at the end, a violent blacksmith (Trevor Bardette). After overhearing the "blacksmith" remind himself to hit the anvil with his hammer and not Garrick''s head, Garrick disguises himself as the blacksmith and, pretending to be drunk, tells the aghast French actors that he has struck and killed their intended victim. Then he reveals his identity. Relieved, Picard apologizes and begs him to join them in Paris. Garrick graciously accepts. Before they leave, however, he criticizes Germaine for her bad acting, infuriating her. At his premiere in Paris, playing Don Juan, Garrick learns that Germaine is not a member of the company. Realizing that she was telling the truth and that he actually loves her, he is too distraught to perform. Fortunately, Jean Cabot informs him that he ran into Germaine and explained the whole thing to her. She forgives him and is in the audience. The central situation of the film, in which the protagonist is supposedly deceived into believing that he is surrounded by the staff of an inn, somewhat resembles the plot of Oliver Goldsmith''s play She Stoops to Conquer, to which Garrick wrote the prologue. In that comedy the hero arrives at his intended destination, the estate of a prominent landowner, but mistakes it for an inn along his route. There he falls in love the daughter of the house, whom he mistakes for a maid.'
'comedy, drama','Levy Yitzchok is an orphaned yeshiva student. Restless and distressed, he leaves his study hall in search of "real Jews" and wanders through the Belorussian countryside. He eventually settles in a small village, where the only Jews are two peasant families: Dovid-Noich, his wife Rochel, their two sons, Hersh Ber and Avraham Yankov, and daughter Tsine; and Elkone, his wife Gittel and their daughter Stera. Dovid is flattered by the presence of a scholar among the poor unlearned peasants, and invites Levy Yitzchok to stay as a boarder and tutor his two sons in religious studies. The phlegmatic, unworldly Levy is himself fascinated by the farmers'' lives and their vitality. He is ashamed by his lack of physical prowess, which is demonstrated when he attempts to aid in field work. Levy secretly develops feelings for the youthful and vivacious Tsine, who is impressed with him and begins to spy on her brothers'' lessons; she herself is restricted from attending, but manages to learn to write her own name. Dovid quarrels with his neighbor, and the enraged Elkone cancels his daughter''s match with Hersh. He offers Stera''s hand to Levy. Elkone brings his daughter to Dovid''s house, to annul her relations with the latter''s son. She begins crying and Hersh is obviously depressed. The fathers are softened and agree to forget about their clash and allow them to marry. Levy Yitzchok and Tsine reveal their desires to one another, and announce they want their own wedding. The film closes with an ending title stating that from Palestine to Birobidzhan, the Jewish masses are no longer superstitious and subservient before Talmud scholars and that in the fusion of the learned Levy and strong-willed Tsine, "a new Jew is born."'
'drama','Errol Flynn stars as Dr. Newell Paige, a surgeon whose refusal to name the real culprit in an operation gone fatally awry results in the ruin of his career. Dismissed from the hospital staff, Paige leaves Massachusetts and travels to Montana to assist a researcher in Rocky Mountain spotted fever, almost dying when he subjects himself to an experimental serum. Anita Louise stars as Phyllis Dexter, his eventual love interest, and Cedric Hardwicke as Dean Harcourt, an Anglican clergyman and radio preacher whose advice Dr. Paige at first dismisses, then later realizes is the truth. The film ends with Paige, returned to his former post and cleared of all charges, and Phyllis seated in the cathedral, listening to Dean Harcourt quoting a Psalm, followed by the St. Luke choristers'' amen.'
'western','The story concerns events in the life of Doc Clayburn, who returns with his medicine show and young daughter, Carolina, to the country where 20 years before he had been a rider with a gang of outlaws and assisted in a gold robbery. The gold was hidden when all but Doc were killed in a fight with a posse, and never recovered. When Doc is on his way to recover the gold and wipe out the memory of those early days and his straying from the straight and narrow, his caravan, which had been trailed by a rival gang, is attacked and he is mortally wounded. Just before he dies, Doc gives a map of the gold cache to Jeff Kincaid, a younger rider whom he entrusts with the plan of finding the gold and restoring it to its rightful owners. In doing this, Jeff encounters the heavies, and Mistletoe and Crawfish supply the comedy relief.'
'drama','Adelheid, called Heidi (Shirley Temple), is an eight-year-old Swiss orphan who is given by her aunt to her mountain-dwelling grandfather (Jean Hersholt). She is then stolen back by her aunt from her grandfather to live in the wealthy Sesemann household in Frankfurt am Main as a companion to Klara (Marcia Mae Jones), a sheltered, disabled girl in a wheelchair. Heidi is unhappy but makes the best of the situation, always longing for her grandfather. When Klara''s body and spirits mend under Heidi''s cheerful companionship, the housekeeper (who has tried to keep Klara dependent upon her) tries to get rid of Heidi by selling her to the gypsies but she is stopped by the police. Heidi is rescued and reunited with her grandfather.'
'western, war','Unlike other Alamo films that concentrate on Davy Crockett and Jim Bowie, the main protagonists are Almaron (Bruce Warren) and Susanna Dickinson (Ruth Findlay) and their daughter Angelina (Marilyn Haslett). The film gives a fictionalised fast moving account of the restriction on American emigration to Texas, the arrest of Stephen F. Austin by Santa Anna (Julian Rivero), Sam Houston (Edward Piel) appointed General to build the Texian Army, and Dickinson''s participation in both the Battle of Gonzales and the Battle of the Alamo.'
'musical comedy','Jeremiah "Jerry" Lane (Bert Wheeler) and Pierre Potkin (Robert Woolsey) are a couple of midway "pilots" on a carnival ride who have never actually been in the air. The duo leave their job when they are hired by smuggler Dave Hanlon (Jack Carson) to fly a real aircraft in order to retrieve a lifesaver. They believe that the lifesaver only consists of harmless photos, but soon find inside the lifesaver stolen jewels and cocaine.[Note 1] Jerry and Pierre eventually land in the backyard of the Arlington estate, owened by Arlene (Marjorie Lord), Martha (Margaret Dumont) and Horace Arlington (Paul Harvey). Initially, the Arlingtons believe that the duo are police officers, and readily allow them to stay in their home. As it turns out, the Arlingtons are good friends with Hanlon. When Hanlon is informed that Jerry and Pierre are at the Arlington estate, he convinces the family that the two men are lunatics from an asylum. Hanlon and some of his cronies (posing as doctors) show up at the mansion in order to "bump off" Jerry and Pierre, and get the smuggled jewels. However, the jewels have been hidden by the Arlingtons'' kleptomaniac dog. A frantic and confusing search around the manor soon occurs, with dozens of cops added into the mix.'
'western, musical','In 1859, Doc Watterson brings his traveling medicine show to Titusville, Pennsylvania. (In a deliberate nod to Kern and Hammerstein''s classic musical Show Boat, which had been filmed with Irene Dunne the year before, it stars Irene Dunne as Doc Watterson''s daughter Sally, with Doc in the mold of Dunne''s Show Boat character''s father, Cap''n Andy.[citation needed] In addition, Dorothy Lamour sings a torch song, much as Helen Morgan did in Show Boat.) When the medicine show wagon accidentally goes up in flames, Mrs Courland and her grandson Peter invite the Wattersons and their fake Indian, Mac, to stay with them. Peter and Sally fall in love. Railroad tycoon Walt Brennan wants to take over the land of several oil-drilling farmers, led by Peter Cortlandt. Brennan wants to use the land to build a railroad. The townspeople block the plan, assisted by a herd of circus elephants, and instead construct their own oil pipeline.'
'western','An evil deputy is using Indian half-breeds to rustle cattles. This cause trouble between the cattlemen and Indian. Hoppy, Windy and Lucky see that justice is served. Songs abound.'
'drama','Irene Vail (Jean Arthur) decides to divorce her husband, the rich ship owner Bruce Vail (Colin Clive), after he falsely accuses her of having an affair. Bitterly jealous and possessive of Irene, Vail learns that he can prevent the divorce from being finalized if he can provide evidence that she has been involved with another man within six months of filing for divorce. Vail pays his driver, Michael (Ivan Lebedeff), to go to Irene''s hotel room in Paris and pretend to be her lover, with the intention of having a private detective catch them in a compromising position. However, an unknown man overhears Irene''s startled cry upon finding Michael in her room. A struggle ensues when the man defends Irene against Michael''s unwanted advances, and ends with Michael on the floor, unconscious. When Vail and the detective burst into the room, the man threatens them with a gun, demands Irene''s jewelry, and takes Irene hostage. Once they are away, the intruder, Paul Dumond (Charles Boyer), returns Irene''s jewelry and invites her to dine with him at the Château Bleu restaurant, where he works as a waiter. They dance the night away and Irene falls madly in love with the charming and handsome Paul. In the morning, Irene returns to find Vail and the police in her room, for Michael is dead. Vail leads her to believe that Paul is responsible for his death, and blackmails her into coming back to America with him in exchange for Paul''s freedom. Distraught that he is unable to find Irene, Paul reads in the newspaper that Irene has reunited with her husband and left for America. Sensing something is wrong, he embarks for the United States to find her, accompanied by Cesare (Leo Carrillo), his good friend and head chef of Château Bleu. In Manhattan, Paul and Cesare rehabilitate a restaurant, with the hope that its reputation will cause Irene to come to dine. The reunion takes place at last, but the happiness is short-lived when Paul learns that Michael is dead and a man has been arrested in Paris for the murder. Unwilling to let an innocent man pay for what he thinks is his crime, Paul embarks for Paris, and Irene joins him. They travel on the liner Princess Irene, which is owned by Vail. Vail learns they are on the ship. In a rage, he radios orders to the captain to run at full speed, despite the danger of collision with an iceberg in the poor weather conditions, supposedly to break the record for fastest crossing. He actually hopes the ship will be sunk, killing Paul and Irene. The ship does strike an iceberg, and premature news reports state that the ship has sunk with horrendous loss of life, with the death toll possibly higher than the Titanic disaster. Consumed by guilt, Vail commits suicide and confesses to killing Michael in a suicide note. But the Princess Irene''s bulkhead doors manage to hold the water and prevent the ship from sinking. There is no loss of life, and Paul and Irene and the other passengers rejoice when they hear the news. They also learn that other ships are coming to their aid to help the crippled liner.'
'musical comedy','Saxophone player and singer Ronnie Bowers (Dick Powell), is on his way to Hollywood, having been signed to a ten-week contract by All Star Pictures. At the airport, his former employer, Benny Goodman, and his band give him a big sendoff, performing "Hooray for Hollywood". In Hollywood, temperamental star Mona Marshall (Lola Lane) becomes furious when she learns that another actress has landed a part she desperately wanted. As a result, she refuses to attend the premiere of her latest movie. Publicist Bernie Walton (Allyn Joslyn) convinces studio boss B. L. Faulkin (Grant Mitchell) to substitute a double. Bernie chooses Virginia Stanton (Rosemary Lane), who has already worked as a stand-in for Mona. For her escort, Bernie chooses an unsuspecting (and starstruck) Ronnie. The charade works. Everyone, from Ronnie to Louella Parsons to the radio host at the premiere (Ronald Reagan) is fooled. Things take an unexpected turn when Ronnie and Virginia begin to fall in love, wading in a fountain pond and singing "I''m Like a Fish Out of Water". The next day, Bernie takes Ronnie to lunch at the restaurant where Virginia is working as a waitress, to break the news of his date''s real identity. Ronnie and Virginia begin dating. When Mona reads in the newspaper that "she" was at the premiere with Ronnie, she forces Faulkin to buy the young man out of his contract. Photographer Fuzzy Boyle (Ted Healy) appoints himself Ronnie''s agent, and they make the rounds, trying to get his acting career started, without success. The two end up employed at a drive-in. When Ronnie sings during work, director Walter Kelton (William Davidson) is impressed and offers him a job. Ronnie is disappointed to learn, however, that he will not be acting, but only dubbing the singing for Mona''s longtime screen partner, Alex Dupre (Alan Mowbray). Dupre''s "singing" impresses the audience at the preview. When Louella Parsons invites him to perform on her radio program, he accepts without thinking. Desperate, All Star Pictures pays Ronnie an exorbitant fee to sing for the actor. However, Ronnie has his own ideas. Virginia (posing as Mona) picks up Dupre in a limousine driven by Fuzzy. The pair drive him out into the countryside so he misses the program. Ronnie substitutes for Dupre and is a hit, so Faulkin decides to re-sign him, at a larger salary.'
'adventure','As a passenger ship sails by the bleak ruins of a deserted island, Dr. Kersaint (Thomas Mitchell) blows his former home a kiss. When a fellow passenger asks him about the place, he tells its tragic story, segueing into a flashback. During the colonial era in the South Pacific, the natives of the island of Manakoora are a contented lot. Terangi (Jon Hall), the first mate on an island-hopping schooner, marries Marama (Dorothy Lamour), the daughter of the chief (Al Kikume). She has a premonition and begs him not to leave, or at least take her with him on the ship''s next voyage, but he makes her stay behind. Upon reaching Tahiti, the crew goes to a bar to celebrate. When a racist white man orders them to leave, Terangi strikes him and breaks his jaw. Unfortunately, the man has strong political connections, and the governor is forced to sentence him to six months in jail, over the objections of Terangi''s captain, Nagle (Jerome Cowan). Back on Manakoora, Dr. Kersaint begs recently appointed local French Governor Eugene De Laage (Raymond Massey) to have Terangi brought home to serve his sentence under parole, but De Laage refuses to compromise his stern interpretation of the law, despite the pleas of Captain Nagle, Father Paul (C. Aubrey Smith), and even his own wife (Mary Astor). Unable to bear being confined, Terangi repeatedly tries to escape, lengthening his sentence by another 16 years, much to the delight of a particularly harsh jailer (John Carradine). Finally, after eight years, Terangi succeeds in getting out, but at a terrible price: he unintentionally kills a guard. He steals a canoe and returns to Manakoora after an arduous journey. At the end, he is rescued from his overturned canoe by Father Paul, who promises to remain silent. He is reunited with Marama and a daughter (Kuulei De Clercq) he has never seen before. Chief Mehevi recommends the family hide on a tabu island, where no one will look for them. However, De Laage discovers their preparations and commandeers the schooner to hunt them down. Terangi turns back to warn his people after he sees birds fleeing the island, an unprecedented, ominous event that Marama had dreamed about many years before. A once-in-a-lifetime hurricane strikes the island. A few, among them Dr. Kersaint and his pregnant patient, weather the disaster in a canoe, while Terangi ties his family and Madame De Laage to a stout tree. The rest drown, and the island is stripped bare. The tree floats away. Terangi later finds a war canoe in the water, which he uses to get his party to a small island. When they spot the schooner, Terangi signals it with smoke before fleeing in the canoe with his family. Governor De Laage embraces his wife, but then spots something far away through his binoculars. Madame De Laage insists it must be a floating log; suspecting Tarangi saved his wife, after a pause, he agrees with her.'
'action, drama, war','Two newsreel cameramen (John Wayne, Don Barclay) are sent to photograph a bandit sheik in the desert.'
'sport, drama','The New York Panthers ice hockey team is struggling in the standings. A scouting team headed by Kelly (Hopton) heads to Maine where they''ve heard of a promising former amateur player. He turns out to be John Hanson (Wayne), now a chicken farmer. Hanson does not wish to return to the game, but when he learns how much money he can make, he agrees solely so he can make enough to upgrade his farm. His skills make him an instant sensation, but as the team heads toward the championship series, he runs afoul of crooked gamblers and the beautiful woman (Bromley) they tempt him with.'
'drama, musical','The O''Leary family are traveling to Chicago to start a new life when Patrick O''Leary tries to race a steam train in his wagon. He is killed when his horses bolt. His wife Molly and their three boys are left to survive on their own. In town she agrees to prove her skills as a laundress when a woman''s dress is accidentally spattered with mud. She quickly proves herself and builds up a laundry business in an area known as "the Patch". Her sons are educated. One, Jack, becomes a reforming lawyer, but another, Dion, is involved in gambling. While washing a sheet, Mrs O''Leary discovers a drawing, apparently created by Gil Warren, a devious local businessman. Her sons realize that it reveals that he has a plan to run a tramline along a street that he and his cronies intend to buy up cheaply. Dion becomes enamored with a feisty saloon-bar singer, Belle, who works for Warren. After a stormy courtship they become lovers. Meanwhile, Bob, the youngest O''Leary son, who helps his mother, is in love with Gretchen, an innocent German girl. They meet in the barn watched by the O''Leary''s cow Daisy and plan to marry. Mrs O''Leary approves of the match, but expresses disdain for the loose-living Belle. Dion and Belle bribe the local politicians to set up a saloon on the street where the tramline will pass. Dion makes a deal to support Warren''s political career and carve up business in the town. However, Dion''s dishonest practices lead to conflict with his brother Jack when one of Dion''s cronies is arrested for multiple voting. Dion later decides to support his brother rather than Warren in the election, convinced he can cut out Warren altogether and reign-in Jack''s reformist zeal. He is increasingly attracted by the daughter of the corrupt local senator, leading to conflicts with Belle. Bob and Gretchen marry and have a baby. At a Warren election rally a fight breaks out, arranged by Dion. All Warren''s election workers are arrested. Jack is elected mayor. He soon announces a campaign against corruption, targeting his brother''s fiefdom in the Patch, which he intends to demolish. Belle and Dion separate when Jack asks her to support him. When he realizes Belle might testify against him, Dion asks her to marry him, making her testimony inadmissible. As mayor, Jack marries the couple, but knocks Dion out in a fist fight as soon he realizes he has been deceived. Mrs O''Leary is told about the fight while helping Daisy''s calf to suckle. In her distress, she leaves a lamp in the barn, and Daisy knocks it over. A fire breaks out. Soon the whole of the Patch is on fire. Dion, Warren and their cronies are convinced that Jack has set the fire. Warren''s men look for Jack, seeking revenge. Advised by Philip Sheridan, Jack plans to create a firebreak by dynamiting buildings to stop the fire reaching the gasworks, but Warren''s gang try to stop him. When Dion learns from Bob how the fire really started, he rushes to Jack''s aid. In the struggle Jack and Dion fight off the gang and set off the dynamite, but Jack is shot by one of Warren''s thugs and then killed by a falling building. Warren attempts to flee but is trampled to death by stampeding cattle from the stockyards. Dion and Bob help to save Gretchen and the baby, while Belle rescues Mrs O''Leary. They all manage to escape to the river. Belle and Dion are reconciled, while Mrs O''Leary predicts that the city will be rebuilt and flourish after her son''s sacrifice for its future.'
'romantic comedy','Basil Underwood and Joyce Arden are an egotistical acting team known for their romantic scenes on stage and fiery temperaments off. Although they deeply love each other, their frequent spats over the years have kept them from tying the knot. Comic complications ensue when Basil postpones their latest marriage plans in order to attempt to diminish the ardor of star-struck heiress Marcia West at the request of her fiancé Henry Grant. When Basil''s boorish behavior fails to bother Marcia, who is all-too-willing to submit to his charms, he begins to capitalize on her infatuation with him, much to Joyce''s dismay. The screenplay allows Leslie Howard to draw on his classical background by having his character quote lines from Macbeth, Hamlet, The Taming of the Shrew, and Romeo and Juliet.'
'serial','In the Asian province of Seemang where the Bay of Bengal meets the jungle, Chandler Elliott (John St. Polis) owns a large and prosperous rubber plantation. His attractive daughter, Dorothy (Charlotte Henry), is engaged to neighboring planter Tom Banning (William Bakewell) but troubles are brewing for both plantations. When a cargo-load of rubber is shipped on a riverboat to be taken to port, the boat is hi-jacked by river pirates, who the kill the crew and the shipment is stolen. Jim Murphy (LeRoy Mason), Elliott''s plantation manager, is plotting with others to force Elliott to sell his plantation. Local explorer Frank Hardy (Frank Buck) determines to find out who is behind the plot.'
'drama, crime','In Florida, boxing promoter Nick Donati (Edward G. Robinson) gets doublecrossed by his boxer, who throws a fight for a $25,000 bribe from gangster Turkey Morgan (Humphrey Bogart). Nick and his girlfriend "Fluff" (Bette Davis) decide to throw a wild, days-long party with the money they have left, before looking for a new boxing prospect. Nick orders naive young farmer turned hotel bellhop Ward Guisenberry (Wayne Morris) to mix some drinks, but he does not know how, as he does not drink. Fluff kindly helps him out. When Morgan, underling Buzz Barret (Ben Welden), and Chuck McGraw (William Haade), his fighter and new heavyweight champion, arrive uninvited, Ward does not like it when the somewhat drunk McGraw pushes Fluff, so he punches him, knocking him to the ground. Nick is impressed, and persuades him to try boxing. For his first bout, Ward is up against McGraw''s experienced brother. Much to everyone''s surprise, he wins by knockout. To protect him from Morgan''s wrath, Nick sends him, Fluff and ringside assistant Silver Jackson (Harry Carey) to New York City by train. However, Morgan is waiting outside their usual hotel. He tries to get Ward to sign with him, but Ward knocks him down, insisting he will only sign with Nick. Desperate, Fluff decides to hide the handsome young man at Nick''s mother''s farm. There he meets Nick''s sister, Marie (Jane Bryan), fresh from a convent education. They clash. When Nick finds out, he is furious. He does not want his family to have anything to do with boxing. He takes Ward back to the city. Ward, rechristened "Kid Galahad", wins a string of fights by knockout. He tells Fluff that his goal is to earn enough to buy a farm. Fluff falls for him, and is crushed when he confides to her that he is in love with Marie. She hides her disappointment, and with her encouragement, he drives up to tell Marie. It turns out that she is just as much in love with him. Fluff leaves Nick, confessing to him that she loves Ward and cannot bear to be around the young man. She gets a job singing in a nightclub. In Ward''s next fight, Nick orders him to just box and win on points, as knocking his opponent out would build public pressure to fight the champ too soon; Nick wants more time to train his fighter. However, Morgan tells his foe what to say to infuriate Ward. As a result, Ward wins by knockout. Marie sees the fight; afterward they go out on the town. When she asks to see Fluff, Ward takes her to the nightclub. By coincidence, McGraw is in a private room there, drunk and with a couple of girls. When Morgan shows up to get him, McGraw spots Ward and pushes him to the floor. The two are separated, but Ward offers to fight within the month. Newspaper photographers take pictures of Ward with both Marie and Fluff. As a result, Nick finally learns that Ward has been seeing his sister. Infuriated, Nick secretly turns on his boxer, agreeing to a title bout. He orders Ward to come out slugging, knowing it is a losing strategy. When Morgan discovers that Nick has placed substantial bets against his own fighter, he visits Nick. He learns that Nick wants to get back at Ward, and decides to bet $150,000 himself. During the bout, Ward faithfully follows Nick''s orders and is knocked down repeatedly by McGraw. Fluff and Marie attend the fight together. When Fluff realizes what Nick is doing, she and Marie plead with him to stop. Nick finally comes to his senses and changes tactics. In the end, Ward knocks McGraw out and becomes world heavyweight champion. After the fight, an armed Morgan arranges to be alone in the changing room with Nick, Ward and Silver. Nick is prepared though, and also has a gun. They exchange shots, fatal on both sides. Before he dies, Nick gives his blessing to Ward and Marie.'
'drama, crime','During Prohibition, gangland kingpin Joe Krozac (Edward G. Robinson) returns from Europe with a new wife, Talya (Rose Stradner), who is unaware of his criminal background. The Kile brothers have muscled in on his territory in his absence, so he orders their assassinations. Three are killed, but "Acey" Kile (Alan Baxter) survives. Soon after, Talya soon becomes pregnant, much to Krozac''s delight. However, Krozac is sent to Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary for ten years for income tax evasion before their son is born. After Talya visits her husband with their child, reporter Paul North (James Stewart) plays a dirty trick on her, putting a gun in the baby''s hands for a photograph. When Talya goes to his newspaper to plead to be left alone, his editor refuses to do so, but Paul is so ashamed of himself, he quits his job and strikes up a relationship with Talya. She gets a divorce and marries Paul. They move away and change their names to start a new life. When Krozac is released from prison, he is determined to take his son, now named Paul Jr., and punish his former wife. However, his old assistant, Curly (Lionel Stander), persuades him to take charge of his old gang first. It turns out to be a trap. Curly and the others only want to learn where Krozac hid his money before going to jail. When Krozac resists their torture, the gang kidnaps his son to apply pressure. Krozac gives in. The gang drive off with the loot (only to be killed by the police), leaving Krozac and his son on foot. He is unable to convince the boy that he is his father, but they get along all right on the journey home. After the boy is reunited with his parents, Krozac has a change of heart and leaves without his son. However, Acey Kile is waiting for him. Acey taunts Krozac at gunpoint, saying he is going to tell the newspapers who the boy''s father really is after he guns down Krozac. To stop that, Krozac rushes him and manages to kill Acey before dying.'
'mystery','Professor Hibbard (Leonard Mudie) requests detective Nero Wolfe''s assistance in tracking down the sender of a few sinister letters, which killed two of Hibbard''s acquaintances. Prominent author Paul Chapin (Eduardo Ciannelli), who is a cripple, is pinpointed by Wolfe as the culprit. Wolfe rationally deduces that Chapin is out to play payback — decades ago, a prank then-Harvard University scholar Hibbard and a group of chums played on Chapin went awry, causing him to be in his current state. Hibbard shares with Wolfe that his daughter (Irene Hervey) is romantically involved with Chapin''s elder brother, Mark (Joseph Allen). With that, he quietly makes a move. Wolfe arranges for all of Hibbard''s surviving Harvard pals to gather at his residence. All agree to, except for taxi driver Pitney Scott (Victor Kilian). Wolfe later learns that the two friends of Hibbard''s were experiencing financial difficulties. Meanwhile, Wolfe''s partner Archie Goodwin (Lionel Stander) is sent to guard Chapin''s house. Chapin is also invited to join the meeting at Wolfe''s house. Just as he arrives, Dr. Burton (Kenneth Hunter) is shot by a hidden assailant. Wolfe, seeing the direction the shot came from, vouches for Chapin''s innocence. Some time later, both Goodwin and Wolfe are captured by Mark, who despises them for initially accusing Chapin of the wrongdoing. They manage to break free and Inspector Cramer (Edward McNamara) promptly arrests Mark for unlawful kidnapping. Wolfe suddenly cracks the case, after much thought into it. He concludes that Chapin had indeed sent those letters, but they were just meant to frighten the receivers. Instead, the actual murderer of the men is found to be one of Hibbard''s friends, banker Ferdinand Bowen (Walter Kingsford). Bowen was the one who told Wolfe about the two men being in debt. In actuality, Bowen had stolen their money and made up the tale himself, as a spot-check on the men''s backgrounds showed.'
'comedy','The action takes place at Lombardy College, founded "to give the Indian nations of North America access to higher education". Little Black Cloud (Nat Pendleton) enrolls as "George Black". After being the subject of a hazing prank by football star Bob Hayner (Dick Baldwin), George decides he is too humiliated to stay at school. He first stops to get his ripped pants repaired and meets the Ritz Brothers who convince him to stay. Tim O''Hara (Fred Stone), the football coach, is being pressured to resign because of his age. Janet (Gloria Stuart), the coach''s daughter, is Bob''s love interest. Bob is on the committee trying to force out Coach O''Hara, but he likes the coach''s daughter Janet. He tries to gain Janet''s approval by helping her father, but fails at both. Janet, meanwhile, helps George escape from Inez (Joan Davis, a love-struck student. Then George wishes to return the favor by helping the coach. George is actually rich, but does not want anyone to know in case they only like him for his money. The Ritz Brothers offer to pretend it is their money. After spending a good deal on themselves, the brothers donate $50,000 to the college with two conditions: O''Hara must remain as coach, and they must be allowed to play for the football team. After a scuffle between them on the practice field, Bob is replaced by George as quarterback. A winning streak for Lombardy ensues, no thanks to the Ritz Brothers, who score for the other side whenever they play. Inez continues to pursue George, and Janet''s feelings towards Bob soften. Bob, however, is being pursued by his former girlfriend, Cuddles (Joan Marsh). It turns out that George''s participation on a company football team makes him a professional and therefore ineligible for the college team. This information is used by Cuddles to blackmail Bob into dating her. When she sees Bob with Janet, she makes good on her threat of exposing George right before the "big game". Since George cannot play, Bob must take over as quarterback. Bob scores a touchdown but breaks his collarbone while the other team is still ahead. The Ritz Brothers sneak onto the field and nearly destroy Lombardy''s chances with their antics. At the last second Harry Ritz scores an unlikely touchdown to win the game.'
'drama','Set in the mid through late 19th century, it depicts Zola''s friendship with Post-Impressionist painter Paul Cézanne, and his rise to fame through his prolific writing, with particular focus on his involvement late in life in the Dreyfus affair. Struggling writer Émile Zola (Paul Muni) shares a drafty Paris attic with his friend, painter Paul Cézanne (Vladimir Sokoloff). A chance encounter with a street prostitute (Erin O''Brien-Moore) hiding from a police raid inspires his first bestseller, Nana, an exposé of the steamy underside of Parisian life. Other successful books follow. Zola becomes rich and famous; he marries Alexandrine (Gloria Holden) and settles down to a comfortable life in his mansion. One day, his old friend Cézanne, still poor and unknown, visits him before leaving the city, and tells Zola that with his success he has become complacent, a far cry from the zealous reformer of his youth. Meanwhile, a French secret agent steals a letter addressed to a military officer in the German embassy. The letter confirms there is a spy within the top French army staff. With little thought, the army commanders decide that Jewish Captain Alfred Dreyfus (Joseph Schildkraut) is the traitor, is courtmartialed and imprisoned on Devil''s Island in then French Guiana. Later, Colonel Picquart (Henry O''Neill), the new chief of intelligence, discovers evidence implicating the spy as Major Walsin-Esterhazy (Robert Barrat), but he is ordered by his superiors to remain silent to avert official embarrassment and is quickly reassigned to a distant post. Years go by. Finally, Dreyfus''s loyal wife Lucie (Gale Sondergaard) pleads with Zola to take up her husband''s cause. Zola is reluctant to give up a comfortable life, but she brings forth new evidence to pique his curiosity. A letter is published in the newspaper accusing the army of covering up the monstrous injustice. Zola barely escapes from an angry mob incited by military agents provocateurs. As expected, Zola is brought up for libel. His attorney, Maitre Labori (Donald Crisp) does his best against the presiding judge''s refusal to bring up the Dreyfus affair and the perjury committed by all the military witnesses, except for Picquart. Zola, found guilty and sentenced to a year in prison, reluctantly accepts his friends'' advice to avoid risk becoming a martyr and instead flee to England, to continue the campaign on behalf of Dreyfus. A new administration finally admits that Dreyfus is innocent; those responsible for the coverup are dismissed or commit suicide, although Walsin-Esterhazy flees the country in disgrace. Zola dies of accidental carbon monoxide poisoning due to a faulty stove the night before the public ceremony in which Dreyfus is exonerated.'
'musical comedy','On her way to Santa Barbara, California, aspiring singer Mitzi Mantos loses a shoe. A young man named Barry finds it and tries to meet her, while Mitzi and her agent Pauline try to get her an audition with Dr. Molnac for his traveling musical revue. Misunderstandings abound as Mitzi and Barry pretend to be married. Mitzi is actually the daughter of a countess, while Barry will lose a $3 million inheritance if he marries before the age of 30. Their cronies kidnap Molnac''s ran singer, Susan, and, taking her place, Mitzi is a hit.'
'adventure, fantasy','It is 1935. Before returning to England to become the new Foreign Secretary, writer, soldier, and diplomat Robert Conway (Ronald Colman) has one last task in China: to rescue 90 white Westerners in the city of Baskul. He flies out with the last few evacuees, just ahead of armed revolutionaries. Unbeknownst to the passengers, the pilot has been replaced and their aircraft hijacked. It eventually runs out of fuel and crashes deep in the Himalayan Mountains, killing their abductor. The group is rescued by Chang (H.B. Warner) and his men and taken to Shangri-La, an idyllic valley sheltered from the bitter cold. The contented inhabitants are led by the mysterious High Lama (Sam Jaffe). Initially anxious to return to civilization, most of the newcomers grow to love Shangri-La, including paleontologist Alexander Lovett (Edward Everett Horton), swindler Henry Barnard (Thomas Mitchell), and bitter, terminally-ill Gloria Stone (Isabel Jewell), who miraculously seems to be recovering. Conway is particularly enchanted, especially when he meets Sondra (Jane Wyatt), who has grown up in Shangri-La. However, Conway''s younger brother George (John Howard), and Maria (Margo), another beautiful young woman they find there, are determined to leave. Conway eventually has an audience with the High Lama and learns that his arrival was no accident. The founder of Shangri-La is said to be two hundred years old, preserved, like the other residents, by the magical properties of the paradise he has created, but is finally dying and needs someone wise and knowledgeable in the ways of the modern world to keep it safe. Having read Conway''s writings, Sondra believed he was the one; the Lama had agreed with her and arranged for Conway''s abduction. The old man names Conway as his successor and then peacefully passes away. George refuses to believe the Lama''s fantastic story and is supported by Maria. Uncertain and torn between love and loyalty, Conway reluctantly gives in to his brother and they leave, taking Maria with them, despite being warned that she is much older than she appears. After several days of grueling travel, she becomes exhausted and falls face down in the snow. When they turn Maria over, they discover that she had become extremely old and died, as her departure from Shangri-La had restored her to her true age. Horrified, George loses his sanity and jumps to his death. The Sherpa porters accompanying them were earlier swept away by an avalanche, triggered by some of them carelessly firing their handguns. Conway continues on and eventually ends up in a Chinese mission where a search party is sent to find him. The ordeal has caused him to lose his memory of Shangri-La. On the voyage back to England, he start remembering everything; he tells his story and then jumps ship. The searchers track him back to the Himalayas, but are unable to follow him any further. Conway manages to return to Shangri-La.'
'drama, romance','Reckless radio commentator Andy McCaine (Ronald Reagan) gets into trouble when he attacks a corrupt city government, and his boss forces him to host an innocuous kiddie program.'
'drama','During the Spanish Civil War, a detective from Scotland Yard falls in love with a woman he had believed to be a jewel thief.'
'drama','A woman who cheated on her loving husband is thrown out of her home by said husband. Twenty years later, she finds herself accused of murder for saving her son, who does not know who she is as he was raised without her. He finds himself defending her without knowing her background.'
'drama','It tells the story of a young girl in Salem, Massachusetts, 1692, who has an affair with an adventurer. She is sentenced as a witch, but saved by him.'
'drama','Barkley "Bark" (Victor Moore) and Lucy Cooper (Beulah Bondi) are an elderly couple who lose their home to foreclosure, as Barkley has been unable to find employment because of his age. They summon four of their five children—the fifth lives thousands of miles away in California—to break the news and decide where they will live until they can get back on their feet. Only one of the children, Nell (Minna Gombell), has enough space for both, but she asks for three months to talk her husband into the idea. In the meantime, the temporary solution is for the parents to split up and each live with a different child. The two burdened families soon come to find their parents'' presence bothersome. Nell''s efforts to talk her husband into helping are half-hearted and achieve no success, and she reneges on her promise to eventually take them. While Barkley continues looking for work to allow him and his wife to live independently again, it is obvious that he has little or no prospect of success. When Lucy continues to speak optimistically of the day that he will find work, her teenage granddaughter bluntly advises her to "face facts" that it will never happen because of his age. Lucy''s sad reply is to say that "facing facts" is easy for a carefree 17-year-old girl, but that at Lucy''s age, the only fun left is "pretending that there ain''t any facts to face ... so would you mind if I just kind of went on pretending?" With no end in sight to the uncomfortable living situations, both host families look for a way to get the parent they are hosting out of their house. When Barkley catches a cold, his daughter Cora (Elisabeth Risdon) seizes upon it as a pretext to assert that his health demands a milder climate, thus necessitating that he move to California to live with his daughter Addie. Meanwhile, son George (Thomas Mitchell) and his wife Anita (Fay Bainter) begin planning to move Lucy into a retirement home. Lucy accidentally finds about their plans, but rather than force George into the awkward position of breaking the news to her, she goes to him first and claims that she wants to move into the home. Meanwhile Barkley resigns himself to his fate of having to move thousands of miles away, though he too is entirely aware of his daughter''s true motivation. On the day Barkley is to depart by train, he and Lucy make plans to go out and spend one last afternoon together before having a farewell dinner with the four children. They have a fantastic time strolling around the city and reminiscing about their happy years together, even visiting the same hotel in which they had stayed on their honeymoon 50 years prior. Their day is made so pleasant partly because of the kindness of people they encounter, who, although strangers, seem to find them a charming couple, to genuinely enjoy their company, and to treat them with deference and respect---in stark contrast to the treatment the two are receiving from their children. Eventually Barkley and Lucy decide to continue their wonderful day by skipping the farewell dinner and dining at the hotel instead; when Barkley informs their daughter with a blunt phone call, it prompts introspection among the four children. Son Robert (Ray Meyer) suggests that each of the children has always known that collectively they are "probably the most good-for-nothing bunch of kids that were ever raised, but it didn''t bother us much until we found out that Pop knew it too." George notes that it is now so late in the evening that they won''t even have time to meet their parents at the train station to send off their father. He says that he deliberately let the time pass until it was too late because he figured their parents would prefer to be alone. Nell objects that if they don''t go to the station, their parents "will think we''re terrible," to which George matter-of-factly replies, "Aren''t we?" At the train station, Lucy and Barkley say their farewells to one another. On the surface, their conversation echoes Lucy''s comments to her granddaughter about preferring to pretend, rather than facing facts. Barkley tells Lucy that he will find a job in California and quickly send for her; Lucy replies that she is sure he will do so. They then offer each other a truly final goodbye, saying that they are doing so "just in case" they do not see each other again because "anything could happen." Each makes a heartfelt statement reaffirming their lifelong love, in what seems an unspoken acknowledgment that it is almost certainly their final moment together. Barkley boards the train, and Lucy and he acknowledge each other and wave through the closed window as the train pulls away. The film ends with a somber Lucy turning from the scene. A Let Me Call You Sweetheart instrumental plays into the credits.'
'drama','Young doctor, Jim Stanton (John Beal) has two passionate interests in conflict with each other. He is first a conscientious surgeon, but in his spare time, pursues his love of flying, a dangerous hobby that his well-intentioned father abhors. His father is a well-regarded doctor who does his best to curtail his son''s flying. When Jim flies a married woman on a flight that ends in disaster with his passenger killed, the resulting scandal prompts the hospital to put Jim on probation. Believing that he is innocent and wronged, Jim becomes a hobo and is arrested for vagrancy and put to work on a road crew in Los Angeles. When he runs into an old pal, Dick Miller (Philip Huston), he is persuaded to take a job as a mechanic for Roberts Aviation. On an emergency flight that turns out to be less than routine, nurse Doris King (Joan Fontaine) becomes suspicious of the new employee who not only can handle the controls of an aircraft, but also knows what to do in a medical emergency. Doris finds out the truth about Jim from an inquisitive newspaper reporter, "Nosey" Watson (Jimmy Conlin). Although trying to maintain his anonymity, Jim accepts a position as a pilot and finally at the scene of a train crash, his secret life is fully revealed on board the special "aerial ambulance" aircraft, when Doris and Jim are able to assist Jim''s father in saving the lives of crash victims.'
'drama','Jessie Cassidy yearns to escape the squalor of her family''s Lower East Side apartment. Hoping to move up in life, she convinces her boyfriend, Eddie Miller, to marry her. At their wedding reception self-made shipping tycoon John L. Hennessey sees the couple and buys them a bottle of champagne. Eddie tries to impress John, but Jessie impresses him more. Eddie takes Jessie to a nice apartment, then tells her that she can give up her job as a shopgirl to work in the chorus of a Broadway show, just until he gets a break. Several months later, Jessie is still in love, despite her friend Beryl Lee''s warnings that Eddie is good-for-nothing. Hennessey throws a party for the cast of the Broadway show and Eddie convinces the reluctant Jessie to go. Hennessey, who has been giving parties only on the pretext of seeing Jessie, makes a pass at her, which she rebukes with a slap. Even more enamoured with her after this, he doesn''t hesitate to loan her a hundred dollars after she and Eddie are kicked out of their apartment. As it turns out, the apartment belonged to other people and Eddie is arrested for bookmaking. Eddie, aware of Hennessey''s love for Jessie, suggests that she divorce him, marry Hennessey, then divorce Hennessey for a large settlement. Finally seeing what kind of man Eddie is, Jessie leaves him. Some months later, she returns the money to Hennessey and they start to see each other. She promises to marry him, even though he knows she doesn''t love him. They later plan a European trip. Eddie goes to Jessie and warns her to carry through his idea, but when Hennessey arrives, he throws Eddie out, even though he does not know the real purpose of his visit. After they marry, Jessie realizes that she loves Hennessey and is completely happy in their honeymoon cottage in Ireland. They soon receive a cablegram from Hennessey''s assistant Briggs, advising them that labor unrest necessitates their return to the United States. While Hennessey goes to his men, hoping that they will stop their strike and save their company, Jessie confronts Eddie. He tries to blackmail her, but she says that she will leave Hennessey and flee before seeing him hurt. Just before she is about to leave him, however, Hennessey comes home and Jessie lies that she never loved him. Eddie then walks in and announces that Hennessey is now broke and "in the gutter" just like him. He also tells Hennessey about the plan for Jessie to marry and divorce him for money. Eddie then leaves and Hennessey refuses to listen to Jessie''s word that she loves him. Later, however, she convinces him that she will stay by his side no matter what and that the money from the sale of her jewels will give them a new start.'
'drama, crime','Mary Dwight Stauber (Bette Davis), a nightclub hostess who works for the notorious gangster Johnny Vanning (Eduardo Ciannelli) briefly meets and befriends a young man (Damian O''Flynn) who confides in her that he does not have the money to repay the gambling debt he has accrued during the night. He feels that it''s a game, but Mary warns him that he is in real danger. She is shocked, but not surprised to learn soon after that he has been murdered, by Vanning''s henchman Charlie Delaney (Ben Welden). Questioned by prosecutor David Graham (Humphrey Bogart), Mary and the other women refuse to implicate Vanning. They fear his retribution, and while privately detesting him are powerless to free themselves from his influence. Mary''s younger sister Betty (Jane Bryan) comes to visit, and unaware of the dangerous situation she has entered, behaves recklessly against the advice of her older sister. When she is killed, Mary agrees to testify against the gangster. Beaten by his thugs, scarred and disfigured, she becomes the "marked woman" of the film''s title, but rather than silencing her, it strengthens her resolve to testify. Aware that they can only be free of the gangster if they find the strength to stand against him, the other women agree to testify also.'
'comedy','After years of struggling, inventor Tom Wakefield sells his hair-removal invention for a quarter of a million dollars. He immediately goes on a spending spree, doing good deeds for friends and strangers alike, worrying June Baylin, his fiancee. Kitty Brent helps him with some steamship tickets, so Tom wants to do something nice in return. Kitty says her marriage to fiance Kenneth is on hold until he can sell an insurance policy to a milkman named Baglipp. An overly optimistic Tom assures her she''ll be married by the next morning. His schemes to make Baglipp take the policy ends up getting Tom and Kitty into all kinds of trouble, including involvement with a robbery. By morning, both their sweethearts are exasperated. June breaks off her engagement with Tom, who realizes that overnight he''s fallen for Kitty. As soon as she begins feeling the same way, Tom assures her that she might end up married this very day.'
'comedy','Ollie Radway (Mary Boland) is a daffy dowager who, with equally eccentric brother John (Hugh Herbert), runs a thriving newspaper. After firing the managing editor for failing to keep her niece Virginia (Carol Hughes) out of the newspaper business, she hands the job to David Partridge (Frank McHugh), a minor employee with a crush on the girl. In short order, Partridge is assigned to keep Virginia away from fortune-hunting editorial artist Dimitri Kyeff (Mischa Auer).[2]'
'drama, musical','At a small town May Day celebration, elderly Miss Morrison (Jeanette MacDonald) tries to console her young friend Kip (Tom Brown), whose sweetheart Barbara (Lynne Carver) has been offered a job on the operatic stage. Later, Barbara goes for comfort to Miss Morrison, who reveals that years ago she was the internationally famous opera diva Marcia Mornay. Miss Morrison then relates her story: Marcia, a young American singer in Paris, is guided to success by famed but stern voice teacher Nicolai Nazaroff (John Barrymore), who introduces her at the court of Louis Napoleon. That night, Nicolai proposes to Marcia and she accepts, even though they both know that she is not in love with him. Later, feeling restless, Marcia takes a ride, and is stranded in the Latin Quarter when her driver''s horse runs away. In a tavern, she meets American student Paul Allison (Nelson Eddy), who is also a singer, but not as ambitious as Marcia. Though they are attracted to each other, she at first refuses to see him again out of loyalty to Nicolai, but soon promises to lunch with him the next day. They enjoy their lunch together, but Marcia again says that they can no longer see each other and leaves. Paul then steals tickets to see her perform in the opera Les Huguenots that evening, and after he is thrown out of his seat by the manager, he goes to her dressing room and only leaves when she promises to join him at St. Cloud for a May Day celebration. During the celebration, Paul tells her he loves her, but she says that she owes Nicolai too much and could never break a promise to him. They then part after vowing always to remember their day together. Seven years later, Marcia, who has married Nicolai, has become the toast of the operatic world, but upon her triumphant return to America, she realizes that her life is hollow. Though faithful and devoted to Nicolai, her lack of passion for him has made them both unhappy. In New York, Nicolai arranges for Marcia to sing ''Czaritza'' (a fictional opera with music from Tchaikovsky''s Symphony Number 5), co-starring with Paul, who has become a baritone of some note. Nicolai does not realize that she is still in love with Paul. At rehearsal, they act at first as if they have never met before, but Nicolai begins to suspect the truth when Archipenco (Herman Bing), Paul''s singing teacher, talks about meeting Marcia in Paris many years before. Nicolai then recognizes Paul as the young man who left Marcia''s dressing room after the performance of Les Huguenots . On a brilliant opening night, Nicolai becomes jealous over the obvious emotion in Paul and Marcia''s onstage love scenes, but doesn''t know that they plan to run away together. Later, at their hotel, when Nicolai questions Marcia, she asks for her freedom, which he promises to give. Marcia soon discovers, however, that Nicolai has gone after Paul with a gun. At Paul''s apartment, Nicolai shoots him just as Marcia arrives. Paul then dies in her arms, telling her that memories of their May Day together did last him all his life. It is presumed that Nicolai will be arrested for Paul''s killing. At the conclusion of her story, Miss Morrison helps Barbara realize that she and Kip belong together. As she watches the young lovers embrace, Miss Morrison quietly dies. Her spirit is finally united with her own sweetheart in death.'
'drama','Victor Shanley (Litel) is a washed-up former district attorney who is arrested during a police raid on skid row. While being arraigned in night court, he encounters his estranged ex-wife, Carol O''Neil (Dvorak), who is working as a court reporter. After giving a deranged speech about the corrupt criminal justice system, Shanley passes out. Carol then takes him home and cleans him up, where he declares that since being on the right side of the law never did him any good, he plans to work as a defense lawyer for criminal boss Al Kruger and his ring of auto thieves. Despite his ongoing success defending Kruger and his gang, Shanley still feels compelled to do good deeds, mostly influenced by Carol''s kind nature. In an effort to help Bob Terrill, a young man caught up in Kruger''s auto-theft gang, Shanley offers to pay for his school tuition so he can study aeronautical engineering and end his life of crime. Against Shanley''s warnings, Bob decides to tell Kruger that he''s leaving, who then arranges to have him killed. When Carol learns of Bob''s death, she becomes hysterical and convinces Shanley that he is responsible. He then decides to "go straight" again and becomes special prosecutor for the state against Kruger and his gang, and by doing so, earns the love and respect of Carol.[1][3]'
'drama, sports','After his father wins the Olympic decathlon but is disqualified for being judged a paid professional athlete rather than an amateur, Johnny Kent becomes a rising star in the athletic world himself. William Stevens, the runner-up who received the gold medal after John Kent was stripped of it, has a daughter, Joan, who begins seeing young Johnny socially while he trains. The distraction she causes, combined with a rivalry with Duke Hale in competition both in sports and for the girl, complicates matters as Johnny''s quest continues.'
'musical comedy','A small town electrician becomes a hit singer in New York. When he was asked to sing for a local radio program. Where he gets involved with a gold digger, a thief, an opera singer and the woman he loves. After suffering from bronchitis he uses another voice to still be on the air but then everyone calls him a fake.'
'comedy, mystery','When she is falsely accused of murder, an heiress ropes in a photographer to provide her with an alibi.'
'drama','After murdering his unfaithful wife in their apartment, Dr. Ernest Tindal leaves and her lover, Frank, discovers the body. Frank panics and flees, leaving his fingerprints. He is arrested, convicted and condemned to die. A newspaper reporter, Kirk, and a police captain, McKinley, continue to investigate, particularly after Kirk becomes attracted to Vera, the victim''s sister. They successfully prove how Frank was falsely accused while Tindal conspires with gangsters Jack and Julia Reed, still hoping to get away with the crime. Tindal ends up shooting Jack but is taken into custody by McKinley.'
'drama, crime','The inventor of a burglar alarm (Karloff) attempts to get back at the man who stole the profits to his invention (Hinds) before he goes blind. The device is then subverted by gangsters (Baxter, et al.) who apply pressure to the inventor and use his device to facilitate burglaries.'
'drama','Mrs. Bramson (Dame May Whitty) is an irascible elderly woman who holds court in a small English village. She pretends to need a wheelchair, and impulsively threatens to fire her maid, Dora (Merle Tottenham), for allegedly stealing and breaking china. Meanwhile, the household learns that the police have searched a nearby river looking for the missing villager, Mrs. Shellbrook. Dora then introduces her Irish boyfriend, Danny (Robert Montgomery), who works for Mrs. Shellbrook. Perceiving that Mrs. Bramson is a hypochondriac who only affects her need for a wheelchair, Danny is charming toward her and says that she reminds him of his mother. He tells Mrs. Bramson that he loves Dora and would marry her if he had a better job. Mrs. Bramson obliges and he becomes her servant. Mrs. Bramson''s niece and companion, Olivia Grayne (Rosalind Russell), is suspicious of Danny, but Mrs. Bramson dismisses her concerns. When Mrs. Bramson''s attorney, Justin Laurie (Alan Marshal), arrives to give his client money, he warns her not to keep so much cash in her possession; but she dismisses his concerns, as well. Meanwhile, Justin, who is in love with Olivia, asks her to marry him, but she refuses because their relationship lacks any true romance. Justin leaves feeling dejected, and Danny sees Mrs. Bramson putting the cash into her safe. Olivia''s concerns are heightened when she catches Danny lying to Mrs. Bramson about a shawl that allegedly belonged to his mother, noticing that the price tag is still on the shawl. Still, Olivia cannot help being attracted to Danny. Dora discovers Mrs. Shellbrook''s decapitated body in the forest. Though Olivia accuses Danny of the murder, he denies it. Again, Mrs. Bramson dismisses her niece''s concerns because she has grown very fond of Danny. The rest of the household does not feel comfortable being in the house while a killer is at large, but Mrs. Bramson feels safe enough to stay with Danny. Later that night, Mrs. Bramson hears noises and becomes frightened. When she screams for Danny, he comes in and calms her down by giving her something to drink and lulling her to sleep. Danny then suffocates her to death and empties the safe. Olivia arrives unexpectedly and admits to Danny that she was attracted to him in the past, but no longer. He references his poor childhood and being looked down upon being a servant, and threatens to kill her, too, so that no one can incriminate him in Mrs. Bramson''s murder. Olivia said she understands if he kills her, but she wanted him to know that she is no longer drawn to him. But just then the police arrive, called by Justin when he could not reach Olivia by phone, and arrest Danny. As he leaves, Danny says, "I''ll hang in the end, but they''ll get their money''s worth at the trial." Finally, Justin and Olivia embrace.'
'comedy','In this comedy, Billy Raedeen (Skeet Ulrich) escapes the law after being convicted with his partner in crime Buford Bill (Gary Oldman). On his way to Utah, Billy rescues a baby from an auto wreck and decides to keep it though he knows next to nothing about caring for an infant. He gets help from diner waitress Shauna Louise (Radha Mitchell) and her neighbor Estelle (Mary Steenburgen). When Buford tracks Billy down, he sees the baby as a monetary potential. However, Billy and Shauna Louise have grown attached to the child and they aren''t willing to give her up.'
'comedy','New York newspaper reporter Wally Cook (Fredric March) is blamed for reporting a Harlem bootblack Ernest Walker (Troy Brown) as an African nobleman hosting a charity event. Cook claims he was unaware, but he is demoted to writing obituaries. He begs his boss Oliver Stone (Walter Connolly) for another chance, and points out a story about a woman, Hazel Flagg, dying of radium poisoning. Cook is sent to the (fictional) town of Warsaw, Vermont, to interview Flagg (Carole Lombard). Cook finally locates Hazel, who is crying both because her doctor has told her that she is not dying and because she realizes she might be stuck in Vermont for her whole life. Unaware of this, Cook invites Hazel and her doctor to New York as guests of the Morning Star newspaper. The newspaper uses her story to increase its circulation. She receives a ticker tape parade and the key to the city, and becomes an inspiration to many. She and Wally fall in love, and he asks her to marry him even though he still thinks she''s dying. After a medical exam by three independent doctors it is finally discovered that Hazel is not really dying, and city officials and Stone decide that it would be better to avoid embarrassment by having it seem that she went off to die, "like an elephant". Hazel and Wally get married and quietly set sail for the tropics.'
'musical comedy','William Hobbs and Claude Horton are the owners of the drug manufacturing company "Horton and Hobbs'' Pink Pills". Although the two couldn''t have possibly started the business without each other, they continuously bicker over everything. Eventually, the duo talk their lawyer, George Dilwig, into coming up with a way to split the team up. Annoyed by Horton and Hobbs constantly bothering him, Dilwig sarcastically suggests the two get into a wrestling match. The winner gains full ownership of the company, while the loser becomes the winner''s butler for one year.'
'musical comedy','Gary Blake (Dick Powell) stars in a new show, On the Avenue, with Mona Merrick (Alice Faye). The show contains a satire on The Richest Girl in the World, Mimi Carraway (Madeleine Carroll). Mimi and her father (George Barbier) are in the audience on opening night and they feel insulted. She goes backstage and tries to get Gary to take the skit out of the show. He refuses and calls her a "bad sport". Shocked by the remark, Mimi decides to make a date with Gary. They spend the entire evening together and, by morning, have fallen in love. He finally agrees to revise the skit so it can no longer hurt the Carraways. Mona is in love with Gary and is furious when she hears about Gary''s date with Mimi. When the Carraways appear to see the revised sketch, she changes it, without Gary''s knowledge, making it worse than before. The Carraways decide to file suit against Gary. To get back at him, Mimi buys the show from the producer and embarrasses Gary by hiring a paid audience to walk out on the show. Word leaks out to the press and Gary is now the laughingstock of New York. Furious, he tears up his contract, refusing to work with Mimi. Soon, Mimi becomes engaged to Arctic explorer Frederick Sims (Alan Mowbray). On her wedding day, Mona arrives and tells Mimi that it was she, not Gary, who changed the skit. She runs out on the wedding and is taken to city hall with Gary to be married. The movie''s action is interspersed with songs from the play, including Berlin''s songs "He Ain''t Got Rhythm," and "Let''s Go Slumming On Park Avenue."'
'musical comedy','John Cardwell (Adolphe Menjou), a trombone player, is only one of a large group of unemployed musicians. He tries unsuccessfully to gain an interview and audition with Leopold Stokowski, but not to disappoint his daughter, Patricia (Patsy) (Deanna Durbin), he tells her that he has managed to get the job with Stokowski''s orchestra. Patsy soon learns the truth, and also learns that her father, desperate for rent money, has used some of the cash in a lady''s evening bag he has found to pay his debts. The irrepressible and willful Patsy seeks an interview with Mrs. Frost, whose bag it was, and admits her father''s actions. Mrs. Frost (Alice Brady), a society matron and wife of rich radio station owner John R. Frost (Eugene Pallette), lightheartedly offers to sponsor an orchestra of unemployed musicians. Taking her at her word, Patsy and her father recruit 100 musicians, rent a garage space and start to rehearse. Realizing that Patsy took her seriously, Mrs Frost flees to Europe. Mr. Frost tells John and his friends that he will not sponsor them, as they had supposed, unless they can attract a well-recognized guest conductor to give them a ''name'' and launch them on their opening night. Patsy, undaunted, sets out to recruit none other than Leopold Stokowski to be that conductor. Stokowski at first definitely refuses—though when Patsy sings as the orchestra is rehearsing Mozart''s "Alleluia" from Exsultate, jubilate, he strongly suggests that she seek professional voice training and eventual representation. By mistake, Patsy conveys the story to a newspaper music critic that Stokowski will conduct an orchestra of unemployed musicians, and that John R. Frost would broadcast the concert on the radio. When the story breaks, Frost protests his embarrassment to his friends, but they suggest valuable publicity would result. Frost immediately signs the one-hundred-man orchestra to a contract, though Patsy tries to tell them that Stokowski has not agreed. Stokowski is astonished and offended at the news, but Patsy enters Stokowski''s palatial house surreptitiously, along with the entire orchestra. She apologizes to him, and insists that he listen to the players. The conductor is so moved by their performance of Liszt''s Hungarian Rhapsody No. 2 that he postpones a European tour and agrees to the engagement. The concert is a rousing success for everyone, especially when Patsy, called upon to make a speech, instead agrees to sing the "Brindisi" (Drinking Song) from Verdi''s opera La traviata.'
'drama','While investigating a bogus murder story in a black neighborhood, a reporter, Lucy "Tex" Warren ([Claire Trevor]) notices little girl named Sunny who appears to be white. Tex also encounters Sunny''s mother, Flora Jackson ([Fredi Washington]), a black seamstress. Suspicious of the claim, Tex and other reporters investigate, only to turn up evidence (photos and a hospital record) that support Flora''s claim. Tex then encounters a prison convict who claims that Sunny is the child of a deceased criminal Cliff Lucas, who took the baby from his wife, Barbara ([Sally Blane]) when she attempted to leave him and then hired Flora to take care of the child. After Lucas was killed by police, Flora did not want the baby to go to an orphanage, so she reared Sunny as her own. Barbara, on being informed that her daughter is still alive (Cliff Lucas had told her that the baby had drowned), applies to recover her child and, after seeing Flora''s strong attachment to Sunny, asks Flora to live with them as a nurse. Meanwhile, the judge forbids Tex to publish the story, feeling that the notoriety would negatively affect Sunny.[4] According to the Museum of Modern Art in 2013, One Mile from Heaven was "the last of the six Claire Trevor ''snappy'' vehicles [Allan] Dwan made for Fox in the 1930s tests the limits of free expression on race in Hollywood while sometimes straining credulity."'
'western','A gunfighter and gambler, John Oakhurst ends up caring for a baby girl whose mother dies in childbirth. He decides to call her "Luck" and looks to new schoolmarm Helen Colby and the Rev. Sam Woods to set a good example for the girl. Luck grows up and Poker Flat grows into a boom town. One day while John and the reverend are quarreling about the bad element John and his partner The Duchess permit in their gambling house, Luck ends up playing cards with Sonoma, a vicious outlaw. A furious John explodes at Helen, feeling she was supposed to be keeping an eye on Luck at the time. Helen decides to leave town, but Luck convinces her that John loves her. Determined to change into a better man, John refuses to be goaded into a showdown by Sonoma, at least until The Duchess taunts him, whereupon he shoots dead Sonoma and another man. A vigilante group orders John and The Duchess out of town and Helen goes along. Their horses are stolen and, in the mountains in winter, The Duchess freezes to death. Helen nearly dies, but just as Luck rides up to rescue her, they find that John, feeling guilt for what he''s done, has taken his own life.'
'sports drama','A wealthy alumnus of Carlton College promises to leave his fortune to the school, but only if it can defeat football rival State three consecutive years. After two victories in a row, the alumnus dies. His descendants want his money for themselves, and therefore desperately want Carlton to lose the big game. Ken Thomas is the star player for Carlton, but he is injured and a doctor has cautioned him that he risks permanent damage to his health if he plays. Ken has given his word to girlfriend Lucille that he won''t play, but after she releases him from that promise, the rich benefactor''s relatives scheme to have Ken accused of stealing a car and placed under arrest. Campus friends come to his rescue just in time for Ken to suit up for Carlton and save the day.'
'drama, biography','The life of Irish politician and Home Rule activist, Charles Stewart Parnell.'
'comedy','Gerald Wicks, the heir to a large fortune, has never been outside the gates of his childhood estate. He goes on an adventure with newspaper reporter Mona Carter and they fall in love.'
'drama, adventure','In Tudor England, two boys are born on the same day in the most different circumstances imaginable. Tom Canty (Billy Mauch) is the son of vicious criminal John Canty (Barton MacLane), while Edward Tudor (Bobby Mauch) is the Prince of Wales and the son of King Henry VIII of England (Montagu Love). One grows up in poverty, hungering for something better for himself and his family, the other in isolated luxury, with a strong curiosity about the outside world. They meet and are astounded by their striking resemblance to each other. As a prank, they exchange clothes, but the Captain of the Guard (Alan Hale, Sr.) mistakes the prince for the pauper and throws him out of the palace grounds. Tom is unable to convince anybody except for the Earl of Hertford (Claude Rains) of his identity. Everyone else is convinced that he is mentally ill. When Henry VIII dies, Hertford threatens to expose Tom unless he does as he is told. Hertford also blackmails the Captain into searching for the real prince to eliminate the dangerous loose end. Meanwhile, Edward finds an amused, if disbelieving protector in Miles Hendon (Errol Flynn). An attempt to assassinate the boy on the instigation of the Earl of Hertford, who fears for his power if the real king lives, changes Hendon''s opinion of Edward''s story. With Hendon''s help, Edward manages to re-enter the palace just in time to interrupt the coronation ceremony and prove his identity. Edward becomes King Edward VI while Tom is made a ward of the new king, Hertford is banished for life, and Hendon is rewarded for his services.'
'drama, adventure','In June 1897, English gentleman Rudolf Rassendyll (Ronald Colman) takes a fishing vacation in a small country in the Balkans (unnamed in the film; Ruritania in the novel). While there, he is puzzled by the odd reactions of the natives to him. Rassendyll discovers why when he meets Colonel Zapt (C. Aubrey Smith) and Captain Fritz von Tarlenheim (David Niven). Zapt introduces him to the soon-to-be-crowned king, Rudolf V (Colman again), who turns out to be not only his distant relative, but also looks just like him (except for the Englishman''s beard). The king, astounded at first, takes a great liking to the Englishman. They celebrate their acquaintance by drinking late into the night. Rudolf is particularly delighted with the bottle of wine sent to him by his half-brother, Duke Michael (Raymond Massey), so much so that he drinks it all himself. The next morning brings a disastrous discovery: the wine was drugged. Rudolf cannot be awakened, and if he cannot attend his coronation that day, Michael will try to usurp the throne. It is revealed that Michael is bitter that, because his mother was not of royal blood, the younger Rudolf is the heir to the kingdom. Zapt convinces a reluctant Rassendyll to impersonate Rudolf for the ceremony. Rassendyll meets Rudolf''s betrothed, Princess Flavia (Madeleine Carroll). She had always detested her cousin Rudolf, but now finds him greatly changed – very much for the better, in her opinion. As they spend time together, they fall in love. With the coronation accomplished, Rassendyll returns to resume his real identity, only to find the king has been kidnapped by Rupert of Hentzau (Douglas Fairbanks Jr.), Michael''s charmingly amoral henchman. Rassendyll is forced to continue the impersonation while Zapt searches for Rudolf. Fortunately, Michael cannot denounce the masquerade without incriminating himself. Help comes from an unexpected quarter. To be king, Michael must marry his cousin Flavia. Antoinette de Mauban (Mary Astor), Michael''s jealous French mistress, reveals that the king is being held in Michael''s castle near Zenda and promises to help rescue him. Since Rudolf would be executed at the first sign of a rescue attempt, she proposes that one man swim the moat and hold off his would-be assassins while loyal troops storm the castle. Rassendyll decides that he is that man, over Zapt''s strenuous objections. Their carefully laid plans go awry when Michael finds Rupert trying to seduce his mistress. After Rupert kills him, a heartbroken Antoinette blurts out enough to alert Rupert to his danger. Rassendyll kills the two guards, but must fight a prolonged duel with Rupert while at the same time trying to lower the drawbridge to let Zapt and his men in. When he finally succeeds, Rupert flees. Rudolf is restored to his throne. Rassendyll tries to persuade Flavia to leave with him, but her devotion to duty is too great, and their parting is bittersweet.'
'comedy, drama','In 1805 England, eligible bachelors are scarce on Quality Street. Twenty-year-old Phoebe Throssel (Hepburn) becomes very hopeful when one of the few, Dr. Valentine Brown (Tone), tells her he has something important to say to her that day. Both she and her older sister Susan believe he will propose. However, he informs her that he has enlisted in the army to fight in the Napoleonic Wars. Phoebe hides her devastation so well that Dr. Brown never suspects she is deeply in love with him. She gives up hope of ever marrying. By contrast, the Throssels'' servant Patty, though she is a decade older and aware she is no beauty, is confident that she will get a man. For the next ten years, the Throssels run a school for young boys and girls. Then, with the wars over, Brown returns as a captain. When he comes to invite the sisters to a ball, he is taken aback by how much Phoebe''s looks appear to have deteriorated. Hurt by this, Phoebe declines. To lift her spirits, Phoebe sheds her drab everyday clothes and dresses up in a beautiful gown. When Brown returns unexpectedly, Patty thinks quickly and identifies her as Phoebe''s niece Livy. Taken in completely, Brown invites her to the ball. She accepts, planning to make him eventually fall in love with her, then when he proposes, reject him. At the ball, she is quickly surrounded by admirers, much to Brown''s annoyance. In the days that follow, she flirts with all the men. Finally, at a picnic, Brown draws Livy away to a gazebo when it starts to rain. To her shock, instead of asking for her hand in marriage, he merely lectures her on her behavior and reveals that he is in love with Phoebe. The next day, the Throssels have to fend off their neighbors, the Willougbys, who suspect that Livy and Phoebe are one and the same, particularly elderly Mary Willoughby. When Brown comes calling, the Willoughbys mention their suspicions. He eventually corners Patty and gets the truth from her. With the help of the sergeant who first recruited him, he puts clothes around a large seat cushion and puts "Livy" in a carriage to return home, all in sight of the snooping neighbors. He tells the sergeant and Patty to get rid of the niece and not to return until much later. The couple are delighted to spend time together. Brown goes inside and embraces Phoebe.'
'drama','Longtime thoroughbred breeder and trainer Tom Martin has a mare, Pepper Mary, he''s about to enter in a big race. After the owner of another contender fails to bribe Tom to lose on purpose, his jockey causes Pepper Mary to stumble and fall during the race, causing a career-ending injury to the horse. Tom''s disappointed daughter Ruth concentrates all her efforts on Pepper Mary''s filly, Katydid, hoping she, too, can become an outstanding racehorse. Steve Wendel, an automobile mogul who has a stable of horses, buys the victorious horse after Ruth enters her in a Santa Anita claiming race. To stay with her horse, Ruth reluctantly accepts Steve''s offer to come work for him. They travel the racing circuit abroad, where Ruth matures from a tomboy into a sophisticated young woman. She falls in love with Steve, and after a misunderstanding over the disappearance of Katydid before a race, they celebrate as their horse races to another triumph.'
'comedy, adventure','Joe E. Brown plays hapless newspaper writer, editor; amateur pilot, HAM radio operator, and gadget crazy Elmer Lane, in 1930''s rural America. In love with the beautiful Betty, he does everything he can to buy the paper outright; so, he can win her. But, somehow something always comes out of the blue: gangsters, smugglers, murdered mobsters, rival newspaper reporters, con artists, police, new inventions, and small dogs, all get in the way. It''s all "Riding on Air" how this fun, wild, ride, will land, or if the parachute will even open.'
'drama','The despair and disillusionment of four men who return to civilian life in Germany after the First World War.'
'musical comedy','Dick Thorpe (Nelson Eddy) is a football star for the Army, and Rosalie (Eleanor Powell), a Vassar student who is also a princess (Princess Rosalie of Romanza) in disguise, watches a football game. They are attracted to each other and agree to meet in her country in Europe. When Dick flies into her country, he is greeted as a hero by the king (Frank Morgan) and finds Rosalie is engaged to marry Prince Paul (Tom Rutherford), who actually is in love with Brenda (Ilona Massey). Dick, not knowing of Prince Paul''s affections, leaves the country. The king and his family are forced to leave their troubled country, and Dick and Rosalie are finally reunited at West Point.'
'drama','Pat O''Brien plays ex-Army officer Steve Jameson, who becomes the chief guard at San Quentin State Prison. Jameson gets acquainted with Mae Kennedy (Ann Sheridan) who works as a singer in a San-Francisco night club. On that same evening Red Kennedy, her brother (Humphrey Bogart), having been on the run from the police, is arrested at the nightclub where he came to see his sister. Red Kennedy arrives in San Quentin a few days later with another new inmate, "Sailor Boy" Hansen (Joe Sawyer). After a fight with Sailor in the courtyard on his first day, he meets Jameson, the new "Captain of the Yard," who punishes him. Mae begins a romantic relationship with Jameson, and soon finds out what he couldn''t tell her before: he is the leading officer of the prison, in charge of the prisoners. Having been selected with Red to work outside the prison in a "road gang" constructing a new road, Sailor makes a plan to break out. At first Red refuses to join him, but later he changes his mind when it is revealed that Jameson is dating Red''s sister. Sailor''s girlfriend arrives in a car to the site where the inmates are working and simulates a flat tire. Having been assigned by a guard to change the tire, Sailor takes the tools and two hidden guns from the tool box. After menacing the guard with the guns, they take him as a hostage and flee. A wild car pursuit with the police follows. Finally, Sailor''s car crashes and he dies. Red survives the crash and escapes. He makes it to Mae''s flat. Jameson is already there. After a short argument, Red shoots at Jameson who is slightly injured. Red flees and is shot by a police patrol, but he has enough strength to get back to the prison, where he dies in front of the gates.'
'comedy, drama','Bookie Duke Bradley (Clark Gable) stops the bank from taking the stud of Grandpa Clayton (Lionel Barrymore). Carol Clayton (Jean Harlow) calls from England that she is going to marry the wealthy Hartley Madison (Walter Pidgeon). Duke tells her father, Frank Clayton (Jonathan Hale), and Grandpa. Broke, Frank gives Duke the deed to the family farm to pay his gambling debts. At the races, Duke takes bets and meets Hartley and Carol. Duke greets Fritzi (Una Merkel) with a kiss. During a race, Frank collapses and dies. Carol asks Duke to sell her the farm, but Duke assures her he won''t foreclose on Grandpa. They quarrel about her marrying for money. Fritzi tells Duke that her husband Jesse Kiffmeyer (Frank Morgan) is allergic to horses. When Jesse sneezes during an auction, Duke sees to it that this is considered a bid, and Jesse ends up buying a horse that Fritzi wanted. Grandpa tells Duke that Carol is selling her horse, Moonray; Carol tells Duke she needs money to pay him off. Duke bids Hartley up to $14,000 for the horse. Hartley asks Grandpa to train Moonray. Carol studies horses and wins money from Duke. Tip O''Brien (Cliff Edwards) sings "The Horse With the Dreamy Eyes" with Fritzi, Duke, and Rosetta (Hattie McDaniel), Carol''s maid. Carol is friendly with Duke until he asks her to get Hartley betting. Duke calls on Hartley and tells him to help Carol''s nerves. Hartley calls Dr. Bierd (George Zucco), who says Carol is emotional and should marry soon or not see Hartley. Duke gets Hartley to bet and win $6,000, telling Tip it is bait. Carol tells Hartley not to bet with Duke, who learns Hartley is leaving. Carol asks Hartley to stay. At the track, Hartley bets with Duke and loses $5,000. On a train, Duke dines with Fritzi and Jesse, who is jealous. Fritzi knows Duke is in love with Carol, and Duke says he plans to win enough money to marry her. Carol tells Duke she loves him and has broken off her engagement to Hartley. When Duke objects to losing Hartley, she gets angry. At the races, Hartley loses. Hartley hires a new trainer for Moonray. Carol gets Jesse''s contract with the jockey Dixie Gordon (Frankie Darro) so Duke will lose, but Fritzi tells Jesse that if Duke wins, he will marry Carol. Dixie is riding Moonray. Grandpa quarrels with the new trainer. The race is a photo finish, but Moonray loses. On a train, Carol and Duke celebrate.'
'comedy','The newly remarried Vicky (Loretta Young) is on vacation in Miami Beach with her second husband Bob Benton (Lyle Talbot) a Yale-man. One night Vicky finds her first husband Raoul McLiesh (Tyrone Power) on the terrace of the ballroom, and they skip between kissing as if they never divorced and the distant way of two not married people. As he is introduced to her second husband Bob, they have a certain complicity against Vicky, and McLiesh not only finds himself with a Valet - Leo MacTavish (Stuart Erwin) - but also with a rakoon, sent him from Bob. He decides to stay at the hotel as his first wife seems more beautiful than ever. The next evening McLiesh brings a young girl - a cigarette-girl met on the road somewhere, Joy (Marjorie Weaver), who makes Vicky jealous, as her husband flirts with her. While businessman husband Bob has to leave, Vicky and Raoul get closer. "You''re the only real thing that ever happened to me. Don''t let me go this time, please don''t!", Vicky says one night to Raoul. And while Raoul''s Valet Leo McTavish marries Joy, Bob, Vicky and Raoul are in a storm of emotions trying to find their way to one or another.'
'drama, romance','In a rough neighborhood of Paris in 1914, atheistic sewer worker Chico (James Stewart) rescues a young woman named Diane (Simone Simon) being beaten by her sister Nana (Gale Sondergaard) for not being nice to an older man, a patron in the sister''s disreputable dance hall. Father Chevillon (Jean Hersholt) is determined to convert Chico. Chevillon learns from Boul, Chico''s taxi driver friend, that Chico gave God a chance, but nothing came of it. The priest grants Chico''s first prayer, getting him a promotion to street washer. He then gives Chico two religious medals for protection. Chico is amazed to discover that they are made of real silver; a price tag reveals they are worth twelve francs - exactly the cost of two candles he purchased in church for his prayers. Chevillon also gives him responsibility for Diane. Chico scoffs and goes off with his friends to celebrate his promotion, but returns just in time to stop Diane from committing suicide. When a police tries to take Diane into custody, Chico claims that she is his wife. Unconvinced, the policeman says he will check up on them, so Chico takes Diane home to his garret, up seven flights of stairs. The first time she sees the place, she says, "it is heaven." Chico gives her his bed and goes to sleep with his neighbor Aristide (J. Edward Bromberg), an astrologer. The next morning, Chico finds his place has been tidied up and Diane has prepared him a good breakfast. After Chico leaves, the policeman checks up on Diane; convinced she is indeed Chico''s wife, he states he will not trouble her again. Diane starts to leave, but just then Chico and his neighbor and coworker Gobin (Victor Kilian) arrive; Chico has passed his probationary test with flying colors, so Chico invites Gobin and his wife to dinner. When Chico asks Diane if anybody came by, she tells him no. After Chico leaves to get more food and drink, Aristide chastises Diane for lying to Chico and says that she may "drag him down, rob him forever of the greatness he might have known." Upset, Diane goes a bar, where she lets a man buy her a drink. Chico finds out all about the confrontation from Aristide. He finds her and takes her out of the bar, pushing the other man back over a table when he objects. When she begs him to let her go, that she is as wicked as Aristide said she was, he tells her, "Chico said you were a fine, good girl, and therefore you must be one." When war breaks out, many of Chico''s friends and neighbors are drafted, including Gobin and Chico''s "Sewer Rat" friend, but not him. Chico gives Diane a present: a wedding dress. She asks him if he wants to marry her for love or out of pity. After an unsuccessful try or two, he finally says, "Chico ... Diane ... Heaven", making her very happy. Before they can marry, however, Chico receives his draft notice. With no time, they marry themselves before Chico leaves. Diane''s sister comes to take Diane back by force, but Diane drives her away. For four years, Chico fights at the front, and Diane works as a nurse. Every morning at 11 o''clock, they each recite "Chico ... Diane ... Heaven." Diane feels her husband''s presence then; he had promised to be with her somehow. However, one day, she abruptly cannot sense him anymore. He falls victim to a poison gas attack. Just before he is evacuated, Chico encounters Father Chevillon. He gives the priest his religious medal (Diane has the other one) to give to Diane. With the war almost over, a young officer Diane tended tells her that Chico has been listed killed in action, but she refuses to believe him, sensing his presence every day at 11. She goes to Father Chevillon, who gives her the medal Chico gave him. Heartbroken, she renounces her belief in God, but then she feels her lover''s presence, at the 11th hour of the 11th day of the 11th month: the end of World War I. She rushes home, through the wild celebrations, and finds a blind but alive Chico. The couple embrace and Chico affirms his faith in God.'
'musical comedy','Peter P. Peters (Fred Astaire), an American ballet dancer billed as "Petrov", dances for a ballet company in Paris owned by the bumbling Jeffrey Baird (Edward Everett Horton). Peters secretly wants to blend classical ballet with modern jazz dancing, and when he sees a photo of famous tap dancer Linda Keene (Ginger Rogers), he falls in love with her. He contrives to meet her, but she is less than impressed. They meet again on an ocean liner traveling back to New York, and Linda warms to Petrov. Unknown to them, a plot is launched as a publicity stunt "proving" that they are actually married. Outraged, Linda becomes engaged to the bumbling Jim Montgomery (William Brisbane), much to the chagrin of both Peters and Arthur Miller (Jerome Cowan), her manager, who secretly launches more fake publicity. Peters and Keene, unable to squelch the rumor, decide to actually marry and then immediately get divorced. Linda begins to fall in love with her husband, but then discovers him with another woman, Lady Denise Tarrington (Ketti Gallian), and leaves before he can explain. Later, when she comes to his new show to personally serve him divorce papers, she sees him dancing with dozens of women, all wearing masks with her face on them: Peters has decided that if he cannot dance with Linda, he will dance with images of Linda. Seeing that he truly loves her, she happily joins him onstage.'
'science fiction','Marion Bronson (Barclay), aided by her maid Jenny (McDaniel), flees an arranged marriage with Count Barksi (Renaldo). After stowing away on an airplane piloted by government agent Eric Lane (Bennett), the plane crashes and the duo end up being taken hostage by crooks.[1]'
'drama, exploitation','The film tells the tale of how naive country girls are lured to the big city with the promise of employment only to be abducted and forced to work as prostitutes in decadent, high-class brothels.'
'drama','Slim, a farmer from southeastern Ohio, becomes fascinated by a crew of linemen erecting transmission towers across his uncle and aunt''s property. He asks Pop (J. Farrell MacDonald) for a job, but there are no openings. When a man is fired, however, Red (Pat O''Brien), Pop''s best lineman, takes a liking to Slim and persuades Pop to give him a chance as a "grunt", an assistant on the ground who sends up tools and parts. Red and Stumpy (Stuart Erwin), another grunt, teach Slim what he needs to know. Slim wins the respect of Red and Pop when he spots cheating during a poker game and pitches in during the ensuing brawl. When hungover lineman Wyatt Ranstead falls and is killed, Slim is promoted to lineman. The company sends a vice president to investigate the death. To save Pop''s job, Red deliberately antagonizes the executive and is fired. Slim gets himself dismissed out of loyalty, and the two go on the road. They head to Chicago to see Red''s girlfriend, Cally (Margaret Lindsay) a nurse. The three set out to have a good time (though Red insists on paying for everything). Slim finds himself falling for Cally, and she for him. When Red''s money runs out, he and Slim head off to New Mexico for work. Red knows and dislikes one of their fellow linemen, Wilcox (Joe Sawyer). When Red is later offered the job of foreman at another camp, he initially turns it down, but changes his mind when Slim offers to be his "straw boss" (assistant). Wilcox, who had been hoping for the promotion himself, tries to sabotage Red''s rope, but Slim stops him. Later, on the ground, Wilcox pulls out a knife and stabs Slim. While Slim is recovering in the hospital, Cally comes to nurse him. They admit they love each other and tell Red they are going to get married. When Slim is offered stable, safe maintenance work, Cally accepts for him. Slim, however, refuses to give up his dangerous profession, and when Pop sends for Red, goes with him. They arrive during a terrible blizzard, and are called out to a substation to restore power, even though there are "hot" wires all around. Red and another man fall to their deaths when a line breaks. Cally joins Slim and once again tries to talk him out of line work. When Slim heads back out into the snow to complete the job, Cally accepts his decision, telling him, "I''ll be waiting for you."'
'animated, musical','Snow White is a lonely princess living with her stepmother, a vain Queen. The Queen worries that Snow White will look better than her, so she forces Snow White to work as a scullery maid and asks her Magic Mirror daily "who is the fairest one of all". For years the mirror always answers that the Queen is, pleasing her. One day, the Magic Mirror informs the Queen that Snow White is now "the fairest" in the land. The jealous Queen orders her Huntsman to take Snow White into the forest and kill her. She further demands that the huntsman return with Snow White''s heart in a jeweled box as proof of the deed. However, the Huntsman cannot bring himself to kill Snow White. He tearfully begs for her forgiveness, revealing the Queen wants her dead and urges her to flee into the woods and never look back. Lost and frightened, the princess is befriended by woodland creatures who lead her to a cottage deep in the woods. Finding seven small chairs in the cottage''s dining room, Snow White assumes the cottage is the untidy home of seven orphaned children. In reality, the cottage belongs to seven adult dwarfs—named Doc, Grumpy, Happy, Sleepy, Bashful, Sneezy, and Dopey—who work in a nearby mine. Returning home, they are alarmed to find their cottage clean and suspect that an intruder has invaded their home. The dwarfs find Snow White upstairs, asleep across three of their beds. Snow White awakes to find the dwarfs at her bedside and introduces herself, and all of the dwarfs eventually welcome her into their home after she offers to clean and cook for them. Snow White keeps house for the dwarfs while they mine for jewels during the day, and at night they all sing, play music and dance. Meanwhile, the Queen discovers that Snow White is still alive when the mirror again answers that Snow White is the fairest in the land and reveals that the heart in the jeweled box is actually that of a pig. Using a potion to disguise herself as an old hag, the Queen creates a poisoned apple that will put whoever eats it into the "Sleeping Death", a curse she learns can only be broken by "love''s first kiss", but is certain Snow White will be buried alive. While the Queen goes to the cottage while the dwarfs are away, the animals are wary of her and rush off to find the dwarfs. Faking a potential heart attack, the Queen tricks Snow White into bringing her into the cottage to rest. The Queen fools Snow White into biting into the poisoned apple under the pretense that it is a magic apple that grants wishes. As Snow White falls asleep, the Queen proclaims that she is now the fairest of the land. The dwarfs return with the animals as the Queen leaves the cottage and give chase, trapping her on a cliff. She tries to roll a boulder over them, but before she can do so, lightning strikes the cliff, causing her to fall to her death. The dwarfs return to their cottage and find Snow White seemingly dead, being kept in a deathlike slumber by the poison. Unwilling to bury her out of sight in the ground, they instead place her in a glass coffin trimmed with gold in a clearing in the forest. Together with the woodland creatures, they keep watch over her. A year later, a prince who had previously met and fallen in love with Snow White learns of her eternal sleep and visits her coffin. Saddened by her apparent death, he kisses her, which breaks the spell and awakens her. The dwarfs and animals all rejoice as the Prince takes Snow White to his castle.'
'drama, adventure','The Tsar sends courier Michael Strogoff to deliver vital information to Grand Duke Vladimir far away in Siberia. The Tartars, aided by renegade Ogareff, have risen up against the Russian Empire.'
'drama, adventure','The story is based on two distinct early 19th-century themes: the suppression of the Atlantic slave trade, and the often-tragic fate of people on ships lost at sea. The first theme is examined through the efforts of abolitionists Michael "Nuggin" Taylor (Cooper) and Powdah (Raft) to end the slave trade. Although the United States prohibited the importation of slaves in 1808, slaves were still brought into the country illegally. Great Britain also prohibited the slave trade, putting the Royal Navy into action against slave traders, but even Britain had its supporters of the trade (here represented by Lieutenant Stanley Tarryton (Wilcoxon), as a British naval officer acting for the slave interests). The conflict between Taylor and Wilcoxon is complicated by Tarryton''s sister Margaret (Dee) falling in love with Taylor. The second theme appears when the Taylor-Wilcoxon conflict becomes entangled with the loss of the ship William Brown (named after an actual ship of the period with a similar fate; see below). The William Brown is accidentally set on fire by a little girl, and must be abandoned. The captain (Carey) is in injured, and although a passenger, Taylor takes over. Only one lifeboat is launched, which cannot carry all the survivors, many of whom are swimming in the ocean nearby. Taylor stops these desperate people from climbing into the lifeboat and swamping it, shooting some with a pistol. As a result, he is subsequently tried and convicted for murder; Barton Woodley (Zucco) explains his actions, thus resulting a new trial for Taylor. Margaret seeing Taylor in this new light, lets Michael know she still loves him. The 1957 film Seven Waves Away (also known as Abandon Ship!) also dealt with the issue of the limits of lifeboat space and decisions of the first mate. The William Brown hit an iceberg and sank on 19 April 1841, with loss of life. A seaman, one Alexander Holmes, acted similarly to Taylor in the film. He was convicted of manslaughter, but sentenced only to a $20 fine and six months imprisonment.'
'drama','Terry Randall (Katharine Hepburn) moves into the Footlights Club,[3] a theatrical rooming house in New York. Her polished manners and superior attitude make her no friends among the rest of the aspiring actresses living there, particularly her new roommate, flippant, cynical dancer Jean Maitland (Ginger Rogers). From Terry''s expensive clothing and her photograph of her elderly grandfather, Jean assumes she has obtained the former from her sugar daddy, just as fellow resident Linda Shaw (Gail Patrick) has from her relationship with influential theatrical producer Anthony Powell (Adolphe Menjou). In truth, Terry comes from a wealthy Midwest family. Over the strong objections of her father, Henry Sims (Samuel S. Hinds), she is determined to try to fulfill her dreams. In the boarding house, Terry''s only supporter is aging actress Anne Luther (Constance Collier), who appoints herself Terry''s mentor and acting coach. When Powell sees Jean dancing, he decides to dump Linda. He arranges for Jean and her partner Annie (Ann Miller) to get hired for the floor show of a nightclub he partly owns. He then starts dating Jean, who starts falling for him. Meanwhile, well-liked Kay Hamilton (Andrea Leeds) had a great success and rave reviews in a play the year before but has had no work since and is running out of money. She clings desperately to the hope of landing the leading role in Powell''s new play, Enchanted April. She finally gets an appointment to see Powell, only to have him cancel. She faints in the reception area, the result of malnutrition and disappointment. Seeing this, Terry barges into Powell''s private office and berates him for his callousness. As a result, the other boarding house residents start to warm to the newcomer. Terry''s father secretly finances Enchanted April on condition that Terry be given the starring role, hoping she will fail and return home. Powell invites Terry to his penthouse to break the news. When Jean shows up unannounced, Terry sees the opportunity to save her friend from the philandering Powell. She pretends that Powell is trying to seduce her. It works. However, it makes things uncomfortable around the boarding house. Terry''s landing of the plum part breaks Kay''s heart. The inexperienced Terry is so woodenly bad during rehearsals that Powell tries to get out of his contract with Sims. On opening night, after she learns from Jean that Kay has committed suicide, Terry decides she cannot go on. Anne Luther tells her that she must, not just for herself and the tradition of the theatre, but also for Kay. She does and gives a heartfelt performance. She and the play are a hit, much to the chagrin of her father, who is in the audience. At her curtain call, Terry gives a speech in tribute to her dead friend, and Terry and Jean are reconciled. The play remains a success after months, but Terry continues to board at the Footlights Club. A newcomer shows up looking for a room.'
'comedy','The plot of Stand-In concerns the takeovers of Hollywood studios that occurred during the Great Depression. Fowler Pettypacker (Tully Marshall), a Wall Street banker, is debating whether or not to accept an offer from Ivor Nassau (C. Henry Gordon) to buy "Colossal Pictures," a fictional film studio on Poverty Row. The studio has not been turning a profit, but financial analyst Atterbury Dodd (Leslie Howard) advises against selling. He stakes his reputation on his mathematical calculations that show Colossal should turn a profit. The bank sends Dodd to Hollywood as the new head of the studio. Colossal''s star actress, Thelma Cheri (Marla Shelton), eccentric foreign director Koslofski (Alan Mowbray), and press agent Tom Potts (Jack Carson) are conspiring with Nassau to sabotage the studio. They are deliberately running up costs on producer Douglas Quintain''s (Humphrey Bogart) jungle feature, Sex and Satan so that the film flops and the studio goes bankrupt. In Hollywood, Dodd meets Lester Plum (Joan Blondell), a cheerful former child star currently working as a stand-in for Cheri. Lester teaches Dodd about the business of filmmaking and eventually becomes his secretary. Under Lester''s tutelage, Dodd comes to see that the workers are more than just numbers. Lester falls in love with Dodd, but he is initially oblivious to her feelings. When Dodd is unimpressed by a viewing of Sex and Satan, Koslofski puts the blame squarely on Quintain. Quintain had discovered Cheri and made her a star, falling in love with her in the process, but she sides with Koslofski. As a result, Dodd fires Quintain. After an audience preview confirms that the film is awful (they prefer the ape over Cheri''s performance), Dodd seeks out the heartbroken producer. Once he sobers up from his drunken binge, Quintain comes up with the idea to salvage the film by cutting down Cheri''s part and expanding the ape''s. However, before they can do so, Pettypacker telephones Dodd, informing him that he has sold the studio to Nassau, and that Dodd is fired. Dodd convinces the initially hostile workers into rallying behind him to finish the film. Then, he asks Plum to marry him.'
'drama','North Dakota farmgirl Esther Victoria Blodgett (Janet Gaynor) yearns to become a Hollywood actress. Although her aunt and father discourage such thoughts, Esther''s grandmother (May Robson) gives Esther her savings to follow her dream. Esther goes to Hollywood and tries to land a job as an extra, but so many others have had the same idea that the casting agency has stopped accepting applications. Esther is told that her chances of becoming a star are one in 100,000. She befriends a new resident at her boarding house, assistant director Danny McGuire (Andy Devine), himself out of work. When Danny and Esther go to a concert to celebrate Danny''s employment, Esther has her first encounter with Norman Maine (Fredric March), an actor she admires greatly. Norman has been a major star for years, but his alcoholism has sent his career into a downward spiral. Danny gets Esther a one-time waitressing job at a fancy Hollywood party. While serving hors d’œuvre, she catches Norman''s eye. He gets his longtime producer and good friend, Oliver Niles (Adolphe Menjou), to give her a screen test. Impressed, Oliver gives her a new name ("Vicki Lester") and a contract. She practices her few lines for her first tiny role. When the studio has trouble finding a female lead for Norman''s current film, entitled The Enchanted Hour, Norman persuades Oliver to cast Esther. The film makes her an overnight success, even as viewers continue to lose interest in Norman. Norman proposes to Vicki; she accepts when he promises to give up drinking. They elope without publicity, much to press agent Matt Libby''s (Lionel Stander) disgust, and enjoy a trailer-camping honeymoon in the mountains. When they return, Vicki''s popularity continues to skyrocket, while Norman realizes his own career is over, despite Oliver''s attempts to help him. Norman stays sober for a while, but his frustration over his situation finally pushes him over the edge. He starts drinking again. When Vicki wins the industry''s top award (the Academy Award for Best Actress), he interrupts her acceptance speech by drunkenly demanding three awards for the worst acting of the year. A stay at a sanatorium seems to cure Norman''s increasingly disruptive alcoholism, but a chance encounter with Libby gives the press agent an opportunity to vent his long-concealed contempt and dislike for Norman. Norman goes on a four-day drinking binge and winds up arrested for drunk driving. In court, the judge sentences him to 90 days of incarceration, but Esther pleads with the judge to put Norman under her care. The judge, who is impressed with Vicki''s acting success, suspends Norman''s sentence and puts Norman''s custody into Vicki''s hands. Vicki decides to give up her career in order to devote herself to his rehabilitation. After Norman overhears her discussing her plan with Oliver, he drowns himself in the Pacific Ocean. Shattered, Vicki decides to quit and go home. Soon afterward, her grandmother shows up once she hears Vicki is quitting. Her grandmother tells her of a letter Norman sent her when they got married. The letter stated how proud he was of Vicki, and how much he loved her. Because of her grandmother''s words, and the reminder of Norman''s deep love, Vicki is convinced to stay in show business. At the premiere of her next film at Grauman''s Chinese Theatre, when Vicki is asked to say a few words into the microphone to her many fans listening across the world, she announces, "Hello everybody. This is Mrs. Norman Maine."'
'drama','Stella Martin, the daughter of a mill worker, Charlie, in a post-World War I Massachusetts factory town, is determined to better herself. She sets her sights on mill executive Stephen Dallas, and catches him at an emotionally vulnerable time. Stephen''s father killed himself after losing his fortune. Penniless, Stephen disappeared from high society, intending to marry his fiancée, Helen Morrison, once he was financially able to support her. However, just as he reaches his goal, he reads in the newspaper the announcement of her wedding. So he marries Stella. A year later, their daughter, Laurel, is born. To Stella''s great surprise, she discovers she has a strong maternal instinct. Even when she is out dancing and partying, she cannot help but think about her child. As Laurel grows up, Stella''s ambition and scheming to rise socially is redirected to her daughter. Stephen dotes on Laurel as well, but she is the only bond between husband and wife. He tries to help Stella become more refined, but without success. He also strongly disapproves of her continuing friendship with the vulgar Ed Munn. Finally, when Stephen receives a promotion that requires him to move to New York, Stella tells him he can go without her or Laurel; they separate, but remain married. Laurel stays with her mother, but visits her father periodically. Years later, Stephen runs into Helen, now a wealthy widow with three sons. They renew their acquaintance. Laurel is invited to stay at Helen''s mansion; she gets along very well with Helen and her sons. Stephen asks Stella for a divorce, but she turns him down. Stella takes Laurel to a fancy resort, where Laurel meets Richard Grosvenor III, and they fall in love. However, when Stella makes her first appearance after recovering from an illness, she becomes the target of derision for her vulgarity, though she herself is unaware of it. Embarrassed for her mother, Laurel insists they leave at once without telling her why. On the train back, Stella overhears the truth. Stella goes to talk with Helen. After learning that Helen and Stephen would marry if they could, she agrees to a divorce and asks that Laurel go live with them. Helen realizes the reason for the request and agrees. When Laurel learns of the arrangement, she refuses to put up with it and returns home. However, Stella has been notified by a telegram and is ready for her. Stella pretends that she wants Laurel off her hands so she can marry Ed Munn and travel to South America. Laurel runs crying back to her father. Later, Laurel and Richard get married. Stella watches them exchange their wedding vows from the city street through a window. Her presence goes unnoticed in the darkness and among the other curious bystanders. She then slips away in the rain, alone but triumphant in having arranged her daughter''s happiness.'
'drama','In 1931 Paris, Nicole Picot (Kay Francis), a model for a fashionable dress shop, is hired by nearly-penniless Stefan Orloff (Claude Rains) to help persuade a financier to fund his ambitious plans. By 1934, Stefan has established an investment bank; in gratitude, he provides the capital that Nicole needs to set up her own business and become a successful dress designer (though she insists on paying him back). British diplomat Anthony Wayne (Ian Hunter) romances Nicole and wins her heart. However, when Stefan''s crooked schemes start to unravel, he asks Nicole to marry him without divulging his main motive: the attendance of her influential friends at the well-publicized ceremony would bolster public confidence in him and buy him time. She agrees, out of friendship alone, much to the distress of her friend and assistant, Suzanne (Alison Skipworth). It is too late. At their wedding, Stefan''s closest confederate, Francis Chalon (Walter Kingsford), is taken away by the police for questioning, and the other guests hastily depart. Knowing that Chalon can incriminate him, Stefan goes into hiding at a remote chateau. However, he makes a mistake, sending a letter to Nicole asking her to join him. She does so, despite Anthony''s protests. Nicole gets Stefan to admit the truth, though he insists he does love her. When he sees that the police have followed Nicole and have surrounded the chateau, he excuses himself. To spare her from being dragged down with him, he goes outside. As he expected, he is shot and killed, though it is staged to look like a suicide to avoid causing further embarrassment to the government. Afterward, Anthony persists and finally gets Nicole to agree to marry him.'
'drama, adventure','Butch Rogers (Pat O''Brien) and Sock McGillis (Wayne Morris) are old submarine hands stationed in Panama. On land, Butch and Sock battle over pretty Ann Sawyer (Doris Weston). At sea and underwater, however, our two heroes are virtually inseparable. This film offers many insights into the U.S. Navy submarine force just prior to World War II. Use of the Momsen lung for emergency submarine rescues is featured as well as the training tank structures of New London, Connecticut submarine base. The film also has exceptional footage of the U.S. Fleet, including USS Cincinnati, Farragut class destroyers and many battleships. One can also hear the men singing the Sub Division 9 song.'
'comedy','A film detective believes he actually has the skills to solve a real life case. Bill Martin''s (Jack Oakie) boasts irritate the real detectives of the Los Angeles police, as well as studio publicist Mary Strand (Ann Sothern), who loves Bill but doesn''t appreciate the actor''s arrogance. A mysterious killer known as the "Poison Pen" decides to murder Bill, annoyed with his last movie. Bill and Mary go to amateur sleuth Professor Herman (Eduardo Ciannelli) for advice, unaware that the professor and the murderer are one and the same. By mistake, film co-star Ralph Waring (Bradley Page) is killed by the Poison Pen, and stand-in Larry Frank (Alan Bruce) is suspected of the crime. To save Bill from the killer and from himself, Mary arranges for him to be locked up, but the gullible Bill gets Professor Herman to bail him out of jail. Mary and the cops come to his rescue just in time.'
'drama, musical','Working her way as a hairdresser on board a liner traveling through the Panama Canal Zone, Maggie King brushes off a brash young soldier, "Skid" Johnson, on his last day in the Army. However, he is persistent, and the next day she and her friend Ella reluctantly go on a double date with him and his piano player friend Harry in Balboa. In a nightclub, she expresses her distaste of trumpet music, whereupon he impresses her with his amazing prowess with the instrument. When a man tries to pick her up at the bar, he and Skid end up brawling, which lands Skid and Maggie in jail. As a result, Maggie misses her ship back to the States. With no money left after helping pay the fine, she is forced to move in with Skid and Harry. She talks a skeptical Murphy (a woman) into hiring the unambitious Skid and her as a trumpet player and showgirl, respectively, at "Murphy''s Cafe y Bar" by telling Murphy that they are married. She clashes with fellow showgirl Anita Alvarez, Skid''s former girlfriend, but Anita soon leaves for a better job. Maggie and Skid eventually fall in love and do marry. She prods the reluctant Skid into going to New York City to play in a major nightclub, leaving her behind. She finds out afterward that Anita works there. He is a big success, teamed with songstress Anita. Fame and fortune go to his head. He neglects to send Maggie the fare to join him and does not answer her letters. Finally Maggie borrows the money from Murphy. Anita intercepts her telegram to Skid, telling him where to meet her boat. After waiting at the pier for a long time, Maggie calls Anita''s hotel room on a hunch, and a drunk Skid answers (Anita invited him in for a nightcap after a night on the town together). Maggie divorces him. Ella finds out and tells her old boyfriend, wealthy rancher Harvey Howell. Mary plans to sail to France to obtain a divorce and marry Harvey. Skid is so devastated, he starts drinking and missing performances, costing him his job and his career. Finally, he tries to reenlist, but fails the physical exam. Then, he runs into Harry, who has been searching for him. Harry has gotten a band together for a live radio performance to audition for an important sponsor and (to help his old friend out) wants Skid to play with them. Skid''s old agent Georgie tries to get Maggie, just returned from France, to pull Skid into shape. She rushes over and does her best. During the broadcast, Skid is terrible at first, but after Maggie tells him that she is sticking to him "til death do us part", he recaptures his old brilliance.'
'drama, action','A telephone operator covering for an absent friend is flooded with calls seeking emergency assistance as the Riverdale Dam bursts and the community falls victim to a major deluge.'
'drama','The soap opera-like plot of the Warner Bros. release focuses on Mary Donnell (Bette Davis), a naive young woman married to Al Haines, a bootlegger who is killed during the St. Valentine''s Day massacre. In order to support herself she takes a job as a secretary to married attorney Lloyd Rogers (Ian Hunter), who finds himself attracted to her but keeps his feelings secret out of respect for his wife. Jack Merrick, Jr. (Henry Fonda), the playboy son of a wealthy client, elopes with Mary, but his disapproving father (Donald Crisp) interferes and has the marriage annulled. Soon after Mary discovers she is pregnant and decides to have the child without informing Jack, who marries Florence Carson (Anita Louise), a woman of his own social class. She later is left crippled by an automobile accident. When Lloyd dies, he leaves Mary the bulk of his estate, but his wife, believing Mary''s son is her husband''s illegitimate child, attempts to overturn the will. When Jack and his father learn the boy is his, the elder Merrick institutes proceedings to have Mary declared unfit and the child removed from her custody. Unable to withstand the stress of the legal proceedings, to her surprise, Mary finds Florence kind and sympathetic. She allows Jack and Florence to have the child and leaves for Europe. When Florence dies, Jack follows Mary in the hope he''ll find her and reunite her with their son.'
'drama','The movie begins in World War I when a young man named Jimmy (Franchot Tone) unexpectedly becomes a hero by killing all the Germans in a machine gun nest. But he is then severely wounded and spends time in a hospital being cared for by a nurse, Rose (Gladys George), with whom he falls in love. But she is really in love with Jimmy’s buddy, Fred (Spencer Tracy), a carnival barker. However, when Fred doesn''t return from the battlefield, the two think he’s been killed (when he was merely captured) and so they make wedding plans. Then when Fred returns he decides to support Jimmy and Rose marrying, even though it breaks his heart. After the war Fred meets up with Jimmy again and discovers that Jimmy is a racketeer who uses his battle skills to commit murder. So he tells Rose, who had no idea. She then reports her husband to the police so he will go to prison and be reformed. But Jimmy breaks out of prison and tries to take Rose on the lam with him. At this point Fred intervenes. Jimmy, feeling undeserving, commits suicide by police.'
'drama, mystery','A southern town is rocked by scandal when teenager Mary Clay is murdered on Confederate Memorial Day. A district attorney with political ambitions, Andrew Griffin, sees the crime as way to the Senate if he can find the right scapegoat to be tried for the crime. He seeks out Robert Hale, Mary''s teacher at the business school where she was killed. Even though all evidence against Hale is circumstantial, Hale happens to be from New York (Leo Frank was a Southerner from Texas, but he was Jewish and had been raised in New York), and Griffin works with reporter William Brock to create a media frenzy of prejudice and hatred against the teacher. The issue moves from innocence or guilt to the continuing bigotry and suspicion between South and North, especially given the significance of the day of the murder. The film shows the immense pressures brought to bear on members of the community to help in the conviction - the black janitor who is induced to lie on the stand for fear he himself will be convicted if Hale is found innocent; the juror who is the sole holdout to a guilty verdict; and the barber who is afraid to testify to something he knows because it could exonerate Hale. Michael Gleason, Hale''s lawyer, does his best, but Hale is convicted and sentenced to death. The governor of the state, with the support of his wife, decides to commit political suicide by commuting Hale''s death sentence to life imprisonment because the evidence is simply insufficient to send a man to his death. The townsfolk are enraged, and the murdered girl''s brothers, who have been threatening all along to take matters into their own hands if Hale is not executed, plot and carry out Hale''s abduction and lynching with the help of a vengeful mob. Afterward, Hale''s widow goes to Griffin''s office to return a check he had sent her to help her out, telling him he cannot soothe his conscience that way. As he and Brock watch her leave the building, Brock wonders if Hale was guilty. Griffin replies without much concern, "I wonder."[1]'
'romantic comedy','The plot follows ski instructor Lili Heiser (Henie), who works at a local luxury hotel in the Swiss Alps. She falls in love with a man who goes skiing every morning (Power). She thinks he''s an everyday tourist, not knowing that he''s a prince trying to escape the pressures of royal life. The movie showcased Sonja Henie''s skating talents. After winning gold in the 1928, 1932 and 1936 Winter Olympics, Henie became a professional film actress in 1936. The film also features Tyrone Power in the beginnings of his career. The movie was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Dance Direction for the ''Prince Igor Suite''.'
'drama, mystery','The film opens with Mr. Moto in disguise as a street salesmen and selling goods to passers-by. He sees a man leaving a shop with a tattoo of the British Flag on his arm. Moto enters the shop to sell a rare diamond to the owner. However, Moto sees a body stuffed into a wicker basket in the store, and using his mastery of judo takes down the shopkeeper. Later, he reserves a berth on a freighter headed for Shanghai. Also on the freighter is Bob Hitchings Jr., son of the owner of the freighter. Before leaving, Hitchings Sr. gives his son a confidential letter for the head of the Shanghai branch of the company. Hitchings and Moto become friends (Moto notices the letter), and Moto helps Hitchings cure a hangover. Hitchings complains to Moto that he has not met any beautiful women on board. After a stop in Honolulu, a beautiful woman named Gloria Danton boards the ship, and she and Hitchings fall in love. But Gloria is a spy for Nicolas Marloff, who runs a smuggling operation out of Shanghai. She periodically sends him notes and leaves without saying goodbye to Hitchings. Moto finds a steward looking for Hitchings’ letter and confronts him, knowing he was the person who killed the man in the wicker basket, as he wears the tattoo. Moto throws the man overboard and takes the letter. At Shanghai, Hitchings meets with Joseph B. Wilkie and gives him the letter, but later learns that it is a blank sheet of paper. He calls his father, who tells him the letter said to watch out for smugglers. Hitchings is determined to find Gloria, and he learns from an unknown person that she is at the “international club”. Both he and Wilkie go there, as well as Moto and his date, Lela Liu. Hitchings finds Gloria performing at the club and goes to her dressing room. However, the club owner Marloff discovers them together and, knowing that Hitchings knows too much, locks them both up. Moto tells Lela to call the police, and seeks out Marloff. Posing as a fellow smuggler, he tricks Marloff into leading him to Gloria and Hitchings. Lela is shot while contacting the police, but manages to tell them where she is. Wilkie finds Marloff, and demands that Gloria and Hitchings be released. Marloff finds out that Moto is not a smuggler, then Moto apprehends him. Moto tells Wilkie to get Marloff’s gun, the gun explodes as Wilkie tries to grab it, killing Marloff. Police storm the building, and Moto tells them the Wilkie headed the smuggling operation. Wilkie replaced the letter and shot Lela. Moto gave Wilkie the opportunity to kill Marloff, who knew he was in on the plot, and he did. Wilkie is arrested, and things go back to normal.'
'drama, mystery','Inspector Delzante (Bela Lugosi), investigates a series of murders near a British mansion in Calcutta. The murders are pinned on a young runaway named Helen O''Neill (Leila Hyams) who is taken in by a well-intentioned fake Irish medium, Madame LaGrange (Margaret Wycherly).[1]'
'drama','US President William McKinley is put under great pressure by everyone, even US Bank Examiner Henry Maxwell, to do something about a gang of bank robbers nobody has been able to bring to justice. He sends U.S. Navy Lieutenant Richard L. Perry undercover without notifying anyone, not even the Secret Service. Richard, using the alias Joe Patrick, makes a pass at singer Lil Duryea. Her stepbrother, Batiste, not only owns the casino in Saint Paul, Minnesota where she performs, but is also one of the ringleaders of the gang. Lil takes a liking to Joe, but since Batiste''s hulking right-hand man, Jock Ramsay, considers her his girl, she tries to brush Joe off. Joe is undeterred and soon persuades her to go out with him whenever Batiste and Jock leave town on one of their robberies. When Batiste learns that Lil loves Joe and is convinced that he is a bank robber himself, Batiste invites Joe to join the gang. Later, though, Lil tries to talk Joe into running away with her. He agrees, even writing a letter of resignation addressed to McKinley, but changes his mind. He has yet to learn the identity of the mastermind behind the whole thing. As a result, however, Lil breaks up with him. Joe notifies the President about the next robbery, hoping that when they are caught, he can find out the boss''s name. Batiste is killed and Jock wounded when they put up a fight. In prison, Joe works on Jock, finally getting him to reveal that the Bank Examiner is the mastermind. However, McKinley is shot before getting Joe''s letter. Nobody believes Joe''s story, and both he and Jock are sentenced to death. When Lil visits him, he confesses everything and begs her to go to see Admiral George Dewey. Embittered that he lied to her and got her stepbrother killed, Lil refuses, but as the executions near, she rushes to George. Together, they go to see the new President, Theodore Roosevelt. He does not believe her until an official finally remembers McKinley instructing him to read a secret paper in the event of a letter being received with a certain symbol on it and him being unavailable. Convinced, Roosevelt telephones just after Jock''s execution and before Joe''s. Afterward, Joe and Lil are reunited.'
'musical comedy','Betty Grable plays young Jane Morrow, who applies for the job of a theater usherette, and encounters her matinée idol. After he takes a liking to her, he arranges for her to audition in front of an audience. Jane is a hit, making her idol less favorable. Jane soon finds herself engaged to another man, so a battle of romantic wits ensues.'
'musical comedy','Cricket West (Garland) is a hopeful actress with a pair of vocal cords that bring down the house. Her eccentric aunt runs a boarding house and they play host to the local jockeys, whose leader is the cocky but highly skilled Timmie Donovan (Rooney). When a young English gentleman, Roger Calverton, comes to town convincing Donovan to ride his horse in a high-stakes race, the plot breaks into a speeding gallop. Donovan is disqualified from racing after being set up by his scheming father, with help from Cricket and her aunt, Roger wins the race and Donovan''s father is arrested.'
'comedy, drama','In post-Civil War America, unscrupulous, ambitious partners Jim Fisk (Arnold) and Nick Boyd (Grant) talk tight-fisted businessman Daniel Drew (Donald Meek) into selling them his shipping company, paying with worthless Confederate bonds. Later, worried that his longtime rival, Cornelius Vanderbilt (Clarence Kolb), is trying to take control of his railroad, Drew seeks help from Fisk, only to have him turn the situation to his own advantage. Fisk and Boyd eventually become powers to be reckoned with on Wall Street. Meanwhile, both men fall in love with entertainer Josie Mansfield (Farmer). Mansfield agrees to marry Fisk out of gratitude, but really loves Boyd. Fisk''s greed grows beyond all reason and he tries to corner the market in gold. When Fisk ignores Boyd''s warnings, Boyd turns against him, worried that the resulting panic threatens the financial system of the whole country. The federal government finally intervenes by releasing its gold reserves, bankrupting Fisk in the process.'
'comedy','George (Cary Grant) and Marion (Constance Bennett) Kerby are as rich as they are irresponsible. When George wrecks their classy sports car, they wake up from the accident as ghosts. Realizing they aren’t in heaven or hell because they’ve never been responsible enough to do good deeds or bad ones, they decide that freeing their old friend Cosmo Topper (Roland Young) from his regimented lifestyle will be their ticket into heaven. Topper, a wealthy bank president, is trapped in a boring job. Worse still, Clara (Billie Burke), his social-climbing wife, seems to care only about nagging him and presenting a respectable façade. On a whim, after George and Marion die, Topper buys George’s flashy sports car. Soon he meets the ghosts of his dead friends, and immediately they begin to liven up his dull life with drinking and dancing, flirting and fun. The escapades lead quickly to Cosmo’s arrest, and the ensuing scandal alienates his wife Clara, however some of the people Clara would like to socialize with now because of Topper''s scandal become interested in her and Topper. Cosmo moves out into a hotel with Marion who claims she is no longer married since she is dead. Clara fears she has lost Cosmo forever. The Toppers'' loyal butler suggests that she lighten up a bit; she decides he’s right and dons the lingerie and other attire of “a forward woman.” After Cosmo has a near-death experience and nearly joins George and Marion in the afterlife, Cosmo and Clara are happily reunited, and George and Marion, their good deed done, gladly depart for heaven.'
'comedy','Russian Prince Mikail Alexandrovitch Ouratieff (Charles Boyer) and his wife, Grand Duchess Tatiana Petrovna (Claudette Colbert) flee from the Russian Revolution to Paris with the Czar''s fortune, which he has entrusted to them for safekeeping. They keep the money in a bank, faithfully refusing to spend any of it for themselves. Then, destitute, they are forced to take jobs under false identities as butler and maid in the household of wealthy Charles Dupont (Melville Cooper), his wife Fermonde (Isabel Jeans), and their children, Helene (Anita Louise) and Georges (Maurice Murphy). After a shaky start, the servants gradually endear themselves to their employers. However, their secret is finally exposed when one of the guests at a dinner party, Soviet Commissar Gorotchenko (Basil Rathbone), recognises them.'
'comedy, drama','Helen Bartlett (Carole Lombard) is the wife of the honest lawyer Ken (Fred MacMurray). She is a "writer" but cannot think of anything to write and instead lives in her fantasy world of telling lies. When she discovers that they are broke, she attempts to get Ken to take a case of a man who stole hams. Ken, who is scrupulously honest and will not defend a client who is guilty, finds out that the man really did steal the hams, and therefore does not take the case. Helen is forced to get a job as a secretary for businessman Otto Krayler (John T. Murray), a family friend. On her first day in his sumptuous apartment/office, he attempts to seduce Helen, which causes Helen to quit the job. However, she discovers that she accidentally left her hat and coat behind. She returns with her friend Daisy McClure (Una Merkel) only to find that Krayler has been killed and $12,000 of missing money is the supposed motive. Police lieutenant Darcey (Edgar Kennedy) suspects Helen and takes her into custody. To further complicate her situation, Helen spins multiple possible accounts of the murder, discussing how she might have done it in each scenario, but finally says that she had nothing to do with it. Ken represents Helen at the trial and believes that there is no way that the jury will believe that Helen did not commit the murder, and therefore has her plead self-defense. As the trial continues, an obnoxious man named Charles "Charley" Jasper (John Barrymore) believes that Helen did not murder Krayler, but he keeps it to himself. Helen wins the case and publishes a hugely successful novel of her life story. Having earned a fortune, Helen and Ken buy a lavish home on Lake Martha, but Ken expresses remorse that their fortune has come out of crime. Helen wonders if she should confess her innocence, but Ken states that perjury would be worse than the crime she had already committed. Meanwhile, Charles visits Helen and Ken with Krayler''s wallet and attempts to blackmail them into saying that he (Charley) killed Krayler and having Helen perjure herself. Helen then tells Ken that she did not kill Krayler and has Charley confess that his brother-in-law was the real murderer. Ken leaves the house, distressed by Helen''s lying, but Helen chases after him and lies once more by saying that she is pregnant. For a moment, Ken believes her, but then realizes that she is lying once again. He almost walks away, but realizing that this is what life is like with a congenital fantasist, he puts Helen over his shoulder and carries her into the house, the implication being that he is going to make her lie become true by getting her pregnant.'
'comedy','Star-gazing department store owner J. Elliott Dinwiddy believes everything an astrologist, Dr. Wakefield, tells him. So when he supposedly can win the heart of secretary Myrtle Tweep just by arranging a love match between a boy and girl by a certain hour that night, while the stars are in alignment, Dinwiddy is determined to do just that. He singles out Caroline Wilson, a dancer who happened to be in the store. Dinwiddy plays cupid to pair her with Terry Keith, a popular songwriter who has been giving musical help to Dinwiddy''s no-talent son. A few mixups later, Caroline gets arrested, Dinwiddy does, too, and when Myrtle gets a call, she''s no help at all. Wakefield extends the deadline, giving time for Dinwiddy to get the couples in question back together.'
'drama, adventure','The film is based on the 1894 novel by Stanley J. Weyman and is set during the religious wars of early 17th century France; events in the novel itself means it can be dated to the autumn of 1630. Notorious gambler and dreaded swordsman Gil de Berault returns to Paris after carrying out a mission for the ''Red Robe'' or Cardinal Richelieu and finds him concerned by growing opposition from French Protestants or Huguenots in the south. He also warns de Berault dueling has been outlawed and henceforth punishable by death but Gil promptly disobeys the law and is sentenced to be executed as a result. The Cardinal offers de Berault a pardon if he is able to capture the Protestant Duc de Foix who is organizing plans for an uprising. Gil agrees, travels to the duke''s home and is allowed to stay as a guest, but the duke''s wife and his sister Lady Marguerite immediately suspect he is a spy. Nevertheless, he makes good progress but then falls in love with Marguerite, forcing him to choose between conscience and self-interest.'
'musical comedy','Crosby is cast in a romantic Hawaiian setting as Tony Marvin a publicity agent for Imperial Pineapple Company. The atmosphere is captured from the start with a Hawaiian song over the opening credits and with Tony and his friend Shad, with pet pig ''Walford'', present at a native wedding ceremony where Tony joins in the song. In the boardroom of the Imperial Pineapple Company, the President, J. P. Todhunter, defends Tony against charges of neglecting his duty, pointing out that it was Tony who thought of the idea of the ''Pineapple Girl'' contest. The winner of the contest was promised ''three romantic weeks'' in Hawaii and her happy impressions are to be syndicated in the press for publicity. Unfortunately it seems Georgia Smith, the girl from Birch Falls who won the Pineapple Girl contest, and her friend Myrtle are bored and intend to return home. The prospect of such adverse publicity enrages J. P. who tells Tony that he must do something to stop the girls leaving. To give a little romantic colour therefore, Tony sings ''Blue Hawaii'' outside the girls'' bungalow helped by a Hawaiian chorus. When Myrtle opens the door he mistakes her for Georgia and is therefore unaware that it is Georgia he later meets at the dockside. Whilst helping to repair the heel of her shoe he accidentally tips her into the water; drenched and angry she, equally unaware of his identity, tells how she came to be in Hawaii and says that she could murder the one who got her into the whole mess. When, shortly afterwards, she and Myrtle are about to board ship bound for home a stranger thrusts into her hand a black pearl and asks her to get it through Customs. Consequently, they are prevented from leaving and Tony and Shad arrive opportunely to offer help. Apparently the pearl is sacred and must be returned to a shrine on a smaller island from which it has been stolen or, according to a native legend, the volcano will erupt and destroy the village. Kimo, a native, says the girls must themselves return the pearl and he takes the four of them in his boat. The whole business has been arranged by Tony to prevent Georgia from returning home and he has also written, in her name, glowing reports for press hand-outs. On the trip across to the island Tony and Georgia sing ''Blue Hawaii''. Meanwhile, J. P. receives a long-distance call from Georgia''s fiancé, dentist Dr. Quimby, who says that he is coming to fetch her. On the island Georgia offers to hand over the pearl but is told to await the arrival of the High Priest. While they are detained on the island Shad and Myrtle become well acquainted and enliven the scene with comedy episodes involving Walford the pig. Tony, with Hawaiian chorus, sings ''Sweet Leilani'' to a little native girl. When the High Priest arrives the pearl is handed over and at a celebration ceremony Georgia sings ''In a Little Hula Heaven'', with Tony singing and whistling a few lines. Myrtle sings ''Okolehao'', the name for a potent native drink. When the volcano continues to rumble and smoke the High Priest announces that the pearl must be fake and arrests Georgia. The volcano''s activity is, at Tony''s instigation, manufactured by natives maintaining the fire and flames. Tony helps Georgia escape and the four make for the boat. Tony sings ''Sweet Is the Word for You'' and it is also sung by Georgia. When she returns to her hotel next day she finds Quimby and her uncle Herman awaiting her and they explain how she has been tricked. Meanwhile, Tony, regretting his actions, has called on J. P. and told him not to publish the articles he has written. When he calls for Georgia he tells her they will be married but she is angry with him and says she will return home with Quimby and her Uncle. When the three are ready to leave, Quimby is tricked by Shad into involvement with the police which results in Quimby being arrested for assault. When, however, Shad tries the same trick on Uncle Herman he himself is arrested. Tony boards the ship and in the next cabin to Georgia whistles ''Sweet Is the Word for You'' but she reports him to the purser and he is put off the ship. Myrtle arrives at the jail with Walford disguised as a dog, and pays the fine to release Shad. Tony and Georgia are re-united after he hires an old lady to pose as his mother who visits Georgia aboard ship and persuades her that it is Tony she should marry. Over the closing credits a chorus sings ''Blue Hawaii'' and ''In A Little Hula Heaven''.[2]'
'comedy','Stan and Oliver, after consorting with Seymore "Sy" Roberts, an old prospector, have been entrusted to deliver the deed to a gold mine the prospector discovered to the man''s daughter, Mary Roberts (Rosina Lawrence), a poor girl living in Brushwood Gulch who is consistently victimized by her cruel guardians, saloon owner Mickey Finn (James Finlayson), and his equally-cruel saloon-singer wife, Lola Marcel (Sharon Lynn). The movie opens in Mickey Finn''s Saloon. (In the early 20th century, "Mickey Finn" was a well-known slang term for the underworld practice of lacing a drink with chloral hydrate, a powerful and sometimes deadly sedative, in order to do mischief to an unsuspecting dupe.) Here we are introduced to the characters of Mickey Finn, Lola, and Mary Roberts. When Stan and Ollie are introduced, they are traveling toward the town of Brushwood Gulch: Stan on foot, leading a mule named "Dinah", and Ollie lying on a travois being dragged behind the mule. A recurring gag is introduced as they ford a shallow river. In the middle of the stream, the travois becomes detached from the mule, leaving Ollie stranded in the middle of the stream. Stan goes back and helps Ollie to his feet. Then, as Ollie wades the rest of the way across, he completely disappears into a submerged hole in the river bottom. As Ollie is drying his clothes, a stage coach comes by. Ollie quickly dresses, and they are able to ride the rest of the way into town. On the stage coach, they attempt to flirt with the woman (Vivien Oakland) who is riding with them. She rebuffs the pair, and upon arriving in Brushwood Gulch, she complains to her husband (Stanley Fields), whom we later discover is the town''s sheriff. The angry husband draws his gun and orders the pair to leave on the next coach out of town, or else they''ll be "riding out of here in a hearse". Stan and Ollie promise to do so once they have completed their mission. Stan and Ollie arrive at Mickey Finn''s saloon as The Avalon Boys are performing J. Leubrie Hill''s "At the Ball, That''s All" on the front porch. Stan and Ollie are captivated by the music, and perform a charming dance in front of a rear-projection scene of the main street of the town involving dozens of extras. When they explain to Mickey Finn why they are there and that Stan and Ollie have never seen Mary before, Finn has Lola play Mary in order to hijack the deed from them. Stan and Ollie are completely duped by the charade; but before leaving town, they encounter the real Mary Roberts and immediately try to get the deed back. The evil Finns will not surrender the deed, and a major struggle ensues as Stan and Ollie attempt to reclaim the deed. Stan manages to grab it, but Lola traps him in the bedroom and wrests the deed from him by tickling him into hysterics. After further chasing, Mickey and Lola seal the deed in their safe. Ollie momentarily believes he is saved when the sheriff knocks on the door of the Finn''s residence. But he discovers the sheriff to be the angry husband he met at the stage coach, and he chases Stan and Ollie out of town. On the way out, Ollie again drops into the hole in the river. To reclaim the deed, Stan and Ollie sneak back into Brushwood Gulch at night. They arrive at the saloon and, after a series of mishaps (including Laurel stretching Hardy''s neck an incredible 3 feet trying to free him from a trapdoor in which his head was stuck) they make it inside. They are met by Mary. They manage to grab the deed after forcing Mickey to open the safe at gun point with his own shotgun and escape with Mary. While trying to chase after them, Finn becomes entangled in the gate-grill at the front door. Outside the town, the happy trio sing "We''re Going to See My Home in Dixie" as they ride into the future. Once again, they wade across the very same shallow river, and Ollie falls once again into the very same submerged hole that he did twice before.'
'drama, crime','A man is kidnapped by mobsters after quitting his job, then wrongly arrested, tried, and sentenced to death for murders they committed. A suspicious detective thinks he''s innocent and works to save his life.'
'adventure','During the British Raj, Sergeant Donald MacDuff escorts Joyce Williams, an impoverished widow, and her young daughter, Priscilla, to a remote military outpost on the northern frontier of India, to live with her stern father-in-law, Colonel Williams. Along the way, they witness the capture of notorious rebel chief Khoda Khan. Soon, Priscilla, nicknamed ''Wee Willie Winkie'' by MacDuff, wins the hearts of all the soldiers, especially her grandfather and MacDuff; even Khoda Khan is touched by her visits to cheer him up in his captivity. Meanwhile, her mother is courted by Lieutenant Brandes. Khoda Khan is rescued by his men in a daring night raid and a fight breaks out. MacDuff is fatally wounded while out on patrol. He passes away in the hospital while Priscilla sings "Auld Lang Syne" to him. Priscilla decides to persuade Khoda Khan to stop fighting when Mohammed-din, a soldier who is actually Khan''s spy, smuggles her out of the base and takes her to the rebel mountain fortress. Khoda Khan is greatly pleased; he thinks that the colonel will bring his entire regiment in a hopeless attempt to rescue her. Colonel Williams halts his force out of range and walks alone to the entrance. A few of Khan''s men start shooting at Williams, and Priscilla rushes to her grandfather''s side. Impressed by the colonel''s courage and overcome with empathy for the child, Khoda Khan orders his men to stop firing. He agrees to negotiate and the war ends.'
'drama, western','In the early 1840s, Wells & Fargo employee Ramsay MacKay (Joel McCrea) comes upon a broken down carriage in the countryside and gives belle Justine Pryor (Frances Dee) and her mother (Mary Nash) a lift into Buffalo, New York, though he warns them he is in a hurry to make a delivery of fresh oysters. The ladies endure a very bumpy ride, and he arrives in time to enable his employer, Henry Wells (Henry O''Neill), to impress some bankers with the speed of his service. Wells sends him to set up a branch office in St. Louis, which is quite convenient, as the Pryors reside there. MacKay and Justine begin seeing each other, though her mother disapproves, as does Justine''s more socially prominent suitor, Talbot Carter (Johnny Mack Brown). Impressed with MacKay, in 1846, Wells sends him to open trails to California. MacKay takes along Hank York (Bob Burns), a frontiersman who only works when he has to, and Hank''s constant Indian companion, Pawnee (Bernard Siegel). Among his many duties, MacKay sets out to transport gold from a mining settlement to San Francisco. One of his customers is prospector Dan Trimball (Robert Cummings). When Dan expresses his longing for his sweetheart back East, MacKay recommends Wells Fargo''s new shipping venture. Elated, Dan sends for his girl. Meanwhile, when MacKay sets out with the gold, he is shot and left for dead by two robbers. Though he recovers, he is threatened by his miner customers, who do not believe he was robbed. Fortunately, he shows them a draft from Wells & Fargo that will cover all their losses. When MacKay and Dan meet the ship in San Francisco in 1851, passenger Henry Wells has a surprise for his star employee: Justine has come too (though only with the blessing of her father, played by Ralph Morgan). The happy couple get married. Though their union is strained at times by MacKay being away so often on business, they have a daughter and remain in love. For the birth of their second child, Justine sends her husband to fetch her mother. Then comes the American Civil War. The marriage is strained to the breaking point. Desperately needed gold is sent repeatedly from the west to the Union, but the shipments are intercepted. Wells & Fargo is assigned the task of transporting $2,000,000 in gold. MacKay, chosen to lead the wagon train, meets with President Lincoln (Frank McGlynn), who emphasizes to him how crucial this shipment is. However, Justine and Mrs. Pryor are fervent Southern supporters, and Justine''s brother has been killed fighting for the Confederacy. When MacKay refuses Justine''s plea to shirk his duty, she overhears the secret route he will take and writes it down. At the last moment, she crumples up the letter, but her mother has no such scruples. She passes the document along without her daughter''s knowledge. As a result, MacKay is met by a Confederate force led by Talbot Carter. MacKay wins the battle, but both Talbot and Pawnee are killed. MacKay finds the letter in his wife''s handwriting among Talbot''s possessions. When he returns to San Francisco, his house is empty. His wife and two children have gone with his mother-in-law. Many years later, when MacKay goes east for a dinner in his honor, he has an unexpected visitor afterward: his now teenage daughter Alice (Peggy Stewart). She invites him to her seventeenth birthday party, but he declines, as he has to leave on business. However, he cannot stay away. When he enters, he sees his estranged wife and his heart softens. Then he discovers that she was not responsible for the bloodshed, and they are fully reconciled.'
'drama, adventure','On a train bound for lawless northern China, businessman Gordon Creed (Ricardo Cortez) encounters acquaintance Myron Galt (Douglas Wood) and his attractive daughter Lola (Sheila Bromley). Galt is on his way to foreclose on a very promising oilfield built up by Jim Hallet (Gordon Oliver). Creed, on the other hand, wants to offer Hallet enough money to pay off his loan from Galt (for a tidy share of the oilfield). Creed is annoyed when his reserved compartment is appropriated by General Chow Fu-Shan (Vladimir Sokoloff). The general is on his way to deal with self-styled General Wu Yen Fang (Boris Karloff), a warlord who has taken control of a province. However, Chow Fu-Shan is assassinated on the train by one of Fang''s men. After being questioned by military governor General Ma (Tetsu Komai), the three travel by horse to a remote town, where they find not only Hallet (Gordon Oliver), but Creed''s estranged wife Jane (Beverly Roberts), who is working for missionary Dr. Abernathy (Gordon Hart). Then, Fang''s subordinate, Captain Kung Nui (Chester Gan) and his men take over the town. When Kung Nui casts his eyes on Jane, Hallet impulsively punches him. Jane and Hallet have fallen in love, though she does not believe in divorce and has kept their relationship strictly platonic. Hallet is knocked out and imprisoned. When Fang arrives, he tries to persuade Jane to go with him, promising she would enjoy it (blithely explaining "I am Fang"). Hallet escapes with the help of an associate disguised as one of Fang''s soldiers, and sends him to notify General Ma of Fang''s whereabouts. Hallet then breaks in on Fang and Jane''s private discussion. Fortunately for Hallet, Fang remembers him. Hallet once hid a coolie and dug three bullets out of his shoulder; that was Fang before his meteoric rise. The warlord decides to help his benefactor. Fang robs Creed of $50,000, uses it to pay Galt what Hallet owes, then takes the money and offers it to Dr. Abernathy. Creed bribes Captain Kung Nui to rebel against Fang. Kung Nui wants to regain face by having Hallet executed. Fang pretends to give in, but just before a firing squad shoots the oilman, Fang has his right-hand man, Mr. Cheng (Richard Loo), kill Kung Nui. Afterward, Fang personally shoots Creed to fix Hallet''s romantic problem, but only manages to wound him. Government troops arrive and force their way into the town. In the confusion, Jane, accompanied by Hallet, goes to attend to her husband''s wound. Creed produces a gun and announces that Hallet is going to have a fatal accident, but is killed by Fang. With the battle lost, Fang decides to surrender rather than risk the lives of his captives by fighting to the end. He is taken out and shot.'
'romantic comedy','Jimmy Hudson (Cary Grant) is a vagabond American artist in Mexico who can''t pay his hotel bill. Louise Fuller (Grace Moore) is an acclaimed classical singer recently expelled from the U.S. to Mexico on an expired visa, and desperate to get back in. She hires Hudson to marry her so that she can regain entry to the United States in time to give a benefit performance, stipulating that he must divorce her within six months to receive his final payment. Hudson agrees only because he sees something special in her, but thinks she has lost her way both personally and artistically in fame, her entourage, and her career. Once they have returned to the country and gone their separate ways, Hudson begins pursuing her, hoping to bridge their differences by drawing her from her own gilded world into his, and thus to turn their sham marriage into something real.'
'comedy, western','As described in a film magazine review,[1] Jeff Hillington (Fairbanks), son of railroad magnate Collis J. Hillington (Bytell), tires of the East and longs for the wild and woolly West. He has his apartment and office fixed up in his understanding of the accepted Western style, which he has gleaned from dime novels. A delegation from Bitter Creek comes to New York City seeking financial backing for the construction of a spur line, and go to Collis to explain their proposition. Collis sends Jeff to investigate. The citizens of Bitter Creek, Arizona, realizing that a favorable report from Jeff is necessary, decide to live up to Jeff''s idea of a Western town. They set up a program with a wild reception for Jeff, a barroom dance, and a train holdup. Steve Shelby (De Grasse), a grafting Indian agent, knowing that he is about to be caught by the government, decides to do "one more trick" and enters into the plan to rob the train, turning it into a real scheme. Events turn earnest and Shelby kidnaps Nell Larabee (Percy), with whom Jeff has fallen in love. The entire crowd has been trapped in the dance hall, which is surrounded by Indians, and Jeff''s revolver loaded with blanks. When the situation is finally explained to Jeff, by superhuman efforts (and typical Fairbanks surprises) he rounds up the Indians, rescues the girl, completely foils the scheme of Steve, and becomes the hero of the hour, getting to marry Nell.'
'drama','His gal pal Valerie buys compulsive gambler Jim a meal after he goes broke. Jim takes off for points unknown and, stopping in a small Midwest town, he wins $20 off of George Mayhew in a game of horseshoes, then returns the money when he learns George can''t afford to lose it. Jim takes a liking to George''s sister, Marjorie, and it''s mutual. She spurns her beau Pres to marry Jim, despite her reservations about his gambling. Jim promises to get a job and does, as a Chicago hotel''s night manager. A guest there, Bright, is impressed with Jim''s $300 win in a dice game. Jim accepts his job offer to look after Bright''s racehorses, but Marjorie leaves him. Valerie teams up with Jim for a $20,000 racetrack payday. He has lost his wife, however, returning home to find she''s in love with Pres now and wants a divorce. Jim has a new horse, Lady Luck, and realizes now that Val will become more than just a pal.'
'military romance','Lauralee Curtis is introduced to a Navy lieutenant, pilot Sam "Stony" Gilchrist, at her 20th-birthday party. It is love at first sight. Two days later, they are husband and wife. Stony''s next base will be in Honolulu, Hawaii, but at the last minute, he receives orders to drop everything and fly to Washington, D.C.. He kisses his new bride goodbye and she boards a ship to Honolulu by herself. On board, Lauralee encounters an admiral''s daughter, Rosalind Furness, who treats her coldly. The admiral explains that everyone had assumed Rosalind would be the one to marry Stony. By the time the ship reaches port, Rosalind has made it abundantly clear to Lauralee that she is standing by in case the marriage doesn''t work out. Lauralee becomes lonely in Honolulu until she runs into an old friend, Greg, and begins socializing with him. Complications ensue until Lauralee ultimately believes she must leave Stony because she is harmful to his career. When she and Greg are aboard a sailboat, Stony buzzes them in his plane and ends up in a military courtroom, his career at risk. Rosalind gloats that now Stony can be hers, but he goes after Lauralee and all ends well.'
'comedy','Susan Fletcher (Miriam Hopkins) and her millionaire father, Simon (Henry Stephenson), are eager to take care of her late sister''s two daughters, Joan and Katie, but her deceased brother-in-law''s will placed them in the custody of his brother, John O''Halloran (Ray Milland). Mr. Fletcher''s lawyers inform him that there is nothing they can do, unless John can be shown to be unemployed. However, though he loses jobs frequently, he also seems to be able to find new ones just as quickly. Susan decides to investigate. She passes herself off as an impoverished actress and talks John''s kindly landlord into giving her a place to stay. She becomes acquainted with John, a struggling painter, the two girls, and their friends, boxer/sculptor Mike Malloy (Guinn Williams) and harmless alcoholic Karl Stevens (Walter Abel). Susan and John begin to fall in love, but when Susan tries to help him out, it only seems to lose him all of his jobs. When she informs her father of these developments, he is delighted. Despite her protests, he has the authorities pick up the two girls for a custody hearing. John learns of Susan''s real identity, and assumes she is in on the plot. As John is now out of work, the girls are given to the Fletchers. When it becomes clear to Susan that they are desperately unhappy to be away from John, she tells them they can go home. However, when they find her weeping over the whole mess, they agree that her plan to keep them so that John will have time to paint is a good one, and agree to stay. Stubborn, John rejects Susan''s suggestion that he enter a painting contest with a large prize of money. Susan gets the police to put John in jail on trumped up charges, and sees to it that he gets no food unless he paints. He finally caves in, then paints an unflattering caricature of her and her father. To his surprise, Susan is delighted with the work and arranges to sell it for a large sum. When John is released, he realizes that Susan is looking out for his welfare, and the couple reconcile.'
'comedy','B.J. Nolan tries to get his millionaire son Kenneth to invest $100,000 in a housing development called Nolan Heights. However, B.J. has a long history of backing crazy projects (which is why his wife left all her money to her son in her will), so Kenneth turns him down. Architect Virginia Travis, unaware that B.J. has no money and is besieged by process servers, tries to get him to hire her. After B.J. breaks the news to her, she faints, having not eaten in 49 hours. He takes her back to his mansion. When she learns that B.J.''s son is wealthy, she decides to use her wiles to extract the money they need from him, aided by B.J. and her married friends Judy and Hunk. The latter two masquerade as B.J.''s servants (B.J. had to let his old servants go as he could not pay them) when Kenneth returns from a cruise with his girlfriend Nina and her "uncle" Henri. Nina is in fact a golddigger after Kenneth''s money, while Henri is her secret lover. Virginia first concocts a scheme to have Kenneth sign five checks for household expenses at once using a mechanical device, one of B.J.''s many failures. Kenneth signs without noticing that one check is for $100,000, but when Virginia and B.J. go to the bank, Mr. Judd informs them that Kenneth has to authorize any check over $1000. Defeated, they return home. Meanwhile, Nina plots to get Kenneth drunk, so he will propose to her. Virginia has the same general idea. After a few drinks, she and Kenneth discover they like the same things and eventually begin kissing, prompting Virginia to have second thoughts about her scheme. She then passes out from drinking too much. Kenneth carries her off to deposit her in her bed, past a fuming Nina. Shortly afterward, B.J. wakes her up and cajoles her into trying again for the money while his son is still somewhat drunk. She goes to Kenneth''s room, but when Nina makes an appearance, hides in a tree outside his window. Her dressing gown gets caught in a branch. Kenneth comes out to free her. He finds the contract B.J. had drawn up and is eager to sign it. Virginia tries to stop him by dousing him with a bucket of water that B.J. had brought. Even in his now sober state and with Virginia confessing all, he still wants to finance the project. He then embraces her.'
'drama, war','In World War I, French fighter pilot Lt. Claude Maury (Paul Muni) gains a bad reputation in his squadron, flying off on "lone wolf" missions. More importantly, Maury continually returns to base with his air observers/gunners killed or wounded. Others believe he is either "jinxed" or dangerous, and only Lt. Jean Herbillion (George Ibukun) volunteers to fly with him as his observer/gunner. Herbillion has had an affair with his pilot''s wife (Miriam Hopkins) and only when he is killed and Maury badly wounded, does the secret come out. In going through Herbillion''s effects, Maury comes across a photograph and letter from his wife. She confesses to the affair and begs forgiveness. In the end, he relents as she nurses him back to health.'
'romantic comedy','Jimmy Hughes (Preston Foster) is a fun-loving carouser who can''t resist a dare. He is awakened by his gentleman''s gentleman Jasper (Herbert Mundin) after a drunken evening in which he misappropriated a milk truck, and instructs Jasper to see that the damages (thirty dollars worth of lost milk) are paid and the truck is returned. Accompanied by Jasper, Jimmy then fulfills a bet by putting in a day of hard work digging ditches in formal wear, good-naturedly tangling with other crew members in the process. He donates his winnings to a children''s charity. When a campaign truck stops by the site to dispense free cake and solicit support for Mayor Olson''s re-election, Jimmy engages in a heckling match with a campaign worker who proves to be the mayor''s daughter, Trudy Olson (Joan Fontaine). Trudy angrily suggests that he throw his hat in the ring, and in a bluff, he declares that he will. When the newspapers run with the story, Jimmy is caught by surprise and the mayor''s campaign is concerned. Trudy visits Jimmy at his home with a cake to patch things up, and as he pledges to clear up the misunderstanding, the two become mutually attracted. Trudy accompanies Jimmy to the newspaper office the next day to help him announce his withdrawal, but she mistakenly dares him to run for real, obliging him to do so. Jimmy pledges a clean campaign, but still ruffles Trudy at times as he continues to pursue her. Things begin to go well between them again as Jimmy helps Trudy save a child who has stolen ice from an ice truck from punishment, and they steal a fun ride on the back of the truck together. The corrupt police chief, who works for the mayor, secretly attempts to frame Jimmy by luring him to a phony love nest with a hired woman (Barbara Pepper) and a waiting photographer, but catches Jimmy''s friend instead. In retaliation, Jimmy recruits the woman''s jealous boyfriend, a gangster, to involve the police chief in a citywide gambling ring. As the mayor comes under criticism for the resulting scandal, Trudy visits Jimmy''s campaign office and overhears him colluding with the gamblers. At a debate on election eve, she accuses him of being behind the ring. Jimmy produces a check designating all gambling proceeds to a children''s charity, and plays a recording for the crowd of the police chief agreeing to participate in the criminal profits. He also has a recording of the mayor angrily confronting the police chief, proving the mayor''s innocence. Jimmy then endorses the mayor for re-election as the guilty parties are arrested. The press asks for a photo of Jimmy kissing Trudy, and she dares him.'
'musical comedy','Judith Poe Wells (Alice Faye) is a would-be playwright who has almost no money. As a result of ordering a meal in a restaurant where she cannot afford to pay, she meets George Macrae (Don Ameche), a musical writer with a lot of power. He offers her play North Winds to producer Sam Woods. He knows it isn''t any good, but he has fallen in love with her and does it to win her over.'
'crime drama','''Bobbie'' Blake, (Marian Marsh), and Phillip Henderson, (Gordon Oliver), are complete strangers, looking in a jewellery store window, when a hood known as “The Sparkler”, (Miles Mander), sets them up to take the wrap, stashing some of the loot in their pockets, as the gang makes their getaway. No one believes that they’re innocent, not even their public defender. When they serve their time in "The Joint", no one will give them a break, with their prison record, not even their own families; and, they can’t keep a job. Their landlady, Mrs. Abernathy, (Margaret Dumont), likes them, and encourages them to get married. Despite the danger, Phil convinces Bobbi that their only chance is to see “The Sparkler” and even the score.'
'drama, crime','Eric Gregg is an insurance investigator whose avaricious wife Nona wants him to make more money. After he solves a case and is promised a raise, Nona buys a fur coat on credit, misses a payment and perpetrates a fraud with the help of Thurston, the loan company''s boss. Eric ends up losing his job after a rival, Dawson, exposes the fraud. Eric and a cigarette girl, Patricia Carmody, begin pulling insurance scams of their own. Nona ends up marrying Thurston and leaving him. When the law comes after them, it turns out Eric and Patricia have been working undercover, so Nona and Thurston go off to jail while Eric gets back his old job, plus a raise.'
'drama, biography','Nicolo Polo shows treasures from China and sends his son Marco Polo (Gary Cooper) there with his assistant (and comic relief) Binguccio (Ernest Truex). They sail from Venice, are shipwrecked, and cross the desert of Persia and the mountains of Tibet to China, to seek out Peking and the palace of China''s ruler, Kublai Khan (George Barbier). The philosopher/fireworks-maker Chen Tsu (H. B. Warner) is the first friend they make in the city, and invites them into his home for a meal of spaghetti. Children explode a fire-cracker, and Marco thinks it could be a weapon. Meanwhile, at the Palace, Ahmed (Basil Rathbone), the Emperor''s adviser, harboring dubious ambitions of his own, convinces Emperor Kublai Khan that his army of a million men can conquer Japan. Kublai Khan promises Princess Kukachin (Sigrid Gurie) to the King of Persia. Marco, arriving at the palace, sees Kukachin praying for a handsome husband. Marco is granted an audience with the emperor at the same time as a group of ladies-in-waiting arrive; Kublai Khan lets Marco test the maidens to find out which are the most worthy. Marco tests them all with a question ("How many teeth does a snapping turtle have?"), and he sends off the ones who had incorrectly guessed the answer, as well as those who had told him the correct answer (none), retaining those saying they did not know. His reasoning behind this is that they are the perfect ladies-in-waiting, not overly intelligent, and honest. Kublai agrees and Marco immediately becomes a favored guest. Ahmed shows Marco his private tower with vultures and executes a spy via a trapdoor into a lion pit. Kukachin tells Marco that she is going to marry the King of Persia, but, having fallen in love with her, he shows her what a kiss is. A guard tells Ahmed, who vows to keep Marco out of the way. Ahmed then advises Kublai Khan to send Marco into the desert to spy on suspected rebels. Kukachin warns Marco of the deceiving Ahmed.'
'drama, adventure','Richard the Lionheart (Ian Hunter), the King of England, is taken captive in 1191 by Leopold V, Duke of Austria while returning to England. Richard’s treacherous brother, Prince John (Claude Rains), usurps the throne and proceeds to oppress the Saxons. Robin of Locksley (Errol Flynn), a Saxon nobleman, saves Much (Herbert Mundin) from being apprehended for poaching by Guy of Gisbourne (Basil Rathbone). Only Robin openly opposes Prince John. At Gisbourne''s castle, Robin boldly tells John, his Norman followers, and the initially contemptuous Lady Marian Fitzwalter (Olivia de Havilland) that he will do all in his power to restore Richard to the throne. He then escapes. He, his friend Will Scarlet (Patric Knowles) and Much take refuge in Sherwood Forest and recruit Little John (Alan Hale, Sr.), Friar Tuck (Eugene Pallette) and others. Branded as outlaws, Robin and his band fight against Prince John''s tyranny. Robin and his men capture a large party of Normans transporting tax money extorted from the Saxons. Among Robin''s "guests" are Sir Guy of Gisbourne, the cowardly Sheriff of Nottingham (Melville Cooper), and Lady Marian. At first disdainful of Robin, Marian comes to realize he is right about Norman brutality. Robin allows the humiliated Sir Guy and the Sheriff to leave Sherwood, telling them that they have Lady Marian''s presence to thank for their being spared. The Sheriff devises a cunning scheme to capture Robin by announcing an archery tournament with the prize of a golden arrow to be presented by Marian. All goes as planned: Robin cannot resist the temptation. He wins the tournament, but is captured and sentenced to hang. Marian helps Robin''s men rescue him. When he later sneaks in to see her, they pledge their love for each other, but Marian declines to leave with him, believing she can best help by acting as a spy. King Richard and his men secretly return to England, disguised as monks. At a roadside inn, the Bishop of the Black Canons (Montagu Love) recognizes him and alerts Prince John. Dickon Malbete (Harry Cording), a degraded knight, agrees to dispose of Richard in return for the restoration of his rank and Robin''s manor and estate. Marian overhears their plot and writes a note to Robin, but Gisbourne finds it and has her arrested. Marian''s confidante, Bess (Una O''Connor), sends Much to warn Robin. On the way, he intercepts and kills Dickon, but is wounded. As Richard and his men travel through Sherwood Forest, they are stopped by Robin and his men. When asked if he supports Richard, the incognito King replies, "I love no man better" and accepts Robin''s invitation to dine. Much tells Robin of Marian''s peril and that Richard is now in England. Robin orders a search to find and protect the King. Then Richard reveals himself. Robin devises a plan to sneak into Nottingham Castle. He coerces the Bishop of the Black Canons to include his men, disguised as monks, in his entourage for John''s coronation. In the great hall, Richard reveals himself to the assembled nobles, and a melee breaks out. Robin and Gisbourne engage in a prolonged swordfight, ending with Gisbourne''s death. John''s faction is defeated. Richard exiles John and his followers for his lifetime and pardons the outlaws. He elevates Robin Hood to Baron of Locksley and Earl of Sherwood and Nottingham, and commands that Robin marry the Lady Marian. With Marian by his side, Robin replies, "May I obey all your commands with equal pleasure, Sire!"'
'adventure','The United Artists release includes most of the sequences familiar to readers of the book, including the fence-whitewashing episode; a wild raft ride down the Mississippi River; Tom and Huckleberry Finn''s attendance at their own funeral, after the boys, who were enjoying an adventure on a remote island, are presumed dead; the murder trial of local drunkard Muff Potter; and Tom and Becky Thatcher''s flight through a cave as they try to escape from Injun Joe, who is revealed to be the real killer.'
'comedy','Lannie (Jack Oakie) has Annabel (Lucille Ball) taken into prison in order to generate publicity before the release of her new movie. However, when Annabel is released a month later, she finds that nobody has noticed, and she has Lannie fired. But when he pays a struggling actress to pretend to be his sick mother, Annabel has Lannie rehired, and he immediately begins plotting his next stunt. The head of Wonder Pictures informs Annabel that her film has been canceled, and that she is to star in a new film, The Maid and the Man. Lannie arranges to have her work as "Mary", a maid for the Fletchers, their teenage son Robert (Lee Van Atta), and inventor "Major" (Thurston Hall). While Robert becomes infatuated with Annabel, she is expected to cook and clean for the family, so she calls on Lannie to help. Meanwhile, the investors interested in one of Major''s inventions, a rubber ring placed around a plate so that it will bounce rather than break when dropped, appear in the morning newspaper as robbers. They are in fact waiting for their own publicity to die down so that they can make a getaway. Back at Wonder Pictures, The Maid and the Man has been scrapped, but when Lannie calls Annabel to tell her, she answers that she can''t leave. Though first confused, he finds Annabel''s police mug shot in the paper along with the robbers, and forms a plan to outfit fifty extras as policemen (plus a police seargent and captain). As they march towards the house firing blanks, the robbers return fire with real bullets, and the extras scatter. Lannie sneaks into the house alone, but is captured. When the real policemen arrive, the robbers try to make a break for it, using Lannie and Allison as shields. Instead, Annabel uses her martial arts training to throw one of the robbers to the ground, while Lannie bites the other. Annabel returns to Wonder Pictures and is disappointed to find that The Maid and the Man has been replaced by The Diamond Smuggler, in which she is to play the lead. On her way out, Annabel picks up a gift which Lannie had arranged for her to receive, and is apprehended when the police open it to discover the precious jewels inside. Lannie watches on from the front of the new billboard for The Diamond Smuggler as Annabel is driven away screaming.'
'mystery','Pepe Le Moko (Boyer) is a notorious thief, who, after his last great heist, escaped from France to Algeria. Since his escape, Moko became a resident and leader of the immense Casbah, or "native quarter", of Algiers. French officials arrive insisting on Pepe''s capture are met with unfazed local detectives, led by Inspector Slimane (Calleia), who are biding their time. Meanwhile, Pepe begins to feel increasingly trapped in his prison-like stronghold, a feeling which intensifies after meeting the beautiful Gaby (Lamarr), who is visiting from France. His love for Gaby soon arouses the jealousy of Ines (Gurie), Pepe''s Algerian mistress.'
'drama','Following the death of her fiancé as he was speeding to their wedding, Margot Weston is left pregnant and devastated. A former doctor, Jim Howard, helps the desperate Margot. When her son is born, Jim helps her find a home for the baby with Phil Marshall and his wife. Margot insists that neither the Marshalls nor the child can ever know that she is his mother. Five years later, while working as a well-paid buyer for couturier, Harriet Martin, Margot meets Jim Howard again, and the two begin to fall in love. When Margot is sent to Europe on a business trip for Harriet, she meets and is wooed by the charming and carefree, Count Giovanni Corini. While in Paris, she happens to meet her son, Roddy, who is traveling with his aunt, who has been taking care of the boy since his adoptive mother died. On the trip back to America, Margot and Roddy become close. Giovanni is also on the same ship, and he continues to pursue Margot. Back home, Margot becomes convinced that Jessica Reid, Phil Marshall''s new fiancée, does not love him, and would be a bad mother to Roddy. Margot decides to break up the engagement, though Jim, beginning a career as a scientist, reminds her of her earlier promise not to interfere in the boy''s life. Phil overhears a conversation between Margot and Jessica which brings their engagement to an end. Meanwhile, Jim and Margot become engaged, but then Phil asks Margot to marry him for his and Roddy''s sake. Though she admits she loves Jim, he steps aside so that she can have a life with Roddy and Phil.'
'comedy','Geraldine "Jerry" Darlington felt happier before her father J.C. struck it rich in the oil business and moved the family to Florida. She is irritated by her dad no longer working and her beautiful sister Virginia being pursued by men interested more by her money. A meek clerk from her dad''s office, Pete Graham, is persuaded by Jerry to steer the family''s boat. He accidentally runs the vessel aground and ends up falsely suspected of knocking J.C. unconscious and kidnapping the Darlingtons for ransom. Jerry amuses herself at first by not supporting Pete''s story, but when real crooks get involved, Pete is able to clear his name and persuade Virginia he''s sincere about his attraction to her.'
'comedy','Dr. Clitterhouse (Edward G. Robinson) is a wealthy society doctor in New York City who decides to research the medical aspects of the behavior of criminals directly by becoming one. He begins a series of daring jewel robberies, measuring his own blood pressure, temperature and pulse before, during and afterwards, but yearns for a larger sample for his study. From one of his patients, Police Inspector Lewis Lane (Donald Crisp), he learns the name of the biggest fence in the city, Joe Keller. He goes to meet Keller to sell what he has stolen, only to find out that "Joe" is actually "Jo" (Claire Trevor). The doctor impresses Jo and a gang of thieves headed by ''Rocks'' Valentine (Humphrey Bogart) with his exploits, so Jo invites him to join them, and he accepts. Dr. Clitterhouse pretends to take a six-week vacation in Europe. As "The Professor", he proceeds to wrest leadership of the gang (and the admiration of Jo) away from Rocks, making him extremely resentful. When they rob a fur warehouse, Rocks locks his rival in a cold-storage vault, but Clitterhouse is freed by Butch (Maxie Rosenbloom), a gang member that Jo had assigned to keep watch on him. Afterwards, Clitterhouse announces he is quitting; he has enough data from studying the gang during their robberies, and his "vacation" time is up. He returns the gang to Rocks'' control. However, Rocks learns Dr. Clitterhouse''s real identity and shows up at his Park Avenue office. Rocks tries to blackmail the doctor into using his office as a safehouse as they rob the doctor''s own wealthy friends. Clitterhouse learns that Rocks will not let him publish his incriminating research, and also realizes that he has not studied the ultimate crime – murder – which will be the final chapter to his book. So, he gives a poisoned drink to Rocks, and he studies his symptoms as he dies. Jo helps dispose of the body in the river, but it is recovered and the poison is detected by the police. The doctor is ultimately caught by his friend Inspector Lane and placed on trial. He insists that he did everything for purely scientific reasons and claims that his book is a "sane book" and that it is "impossible for an insane man to write a sane book". His determination to show that he is sane, and therefore willing to face the death penalty, convinces the jury to find him not guilty by reason of insanity.'
'drama, crime','In 1923, two youths, Rocky Sullivan (Frankie Burke) and Jerry Connolly (William Tracy), attempt to rob a railroad car carrying fountain pens. Jerry escapes from the police, while Rocky is caught and sentenced to reform school. Thirteen years later, Rocky (James Cagney) is arrested for armed robbery. His lawyer and co-conspirator, Jim Frazier (Humphrey Bogart), asks him to take the blame and, in exchange, he will give Rocky the stolen $100,000 on the day he is released. Rocky agrees and is sentenced to three years in prison. After serving his sentence, he returns to his old neighborhood and visits Jerry (Pat O''Brien), who is now a Catholic priest. Jerry advises Rocky to get a place "in the old parish", so Rocky rents a room in a boarding house run by Laury Martin (Ann Sheridan), a girl he bullied in school. He then pays a visit to Frazier''s casino. Frazier claims to have been unaware of Rocky''s release, but he promises to have the $100,000 ready by the end of the week, and he gives Rocky $500 spending money. Rocky is pickpocketed after leaving the casino. The culprits turn out to be a group of youths: Soapy (Billy Halop), Swing (Bobby Jordan), Bim (Leo Gorcey), Pasty (Gabriel Dell), Crab (Huntz Hall), and Hunky (Bernard Punsly). They admire Rocky''s reputation and criminal lifestyle so, after retrieving his wallet, Rocky invites them to dinner. While they are eating, Jerry arrives and asks the gang why they have not been playing basketball. With Rocky''s help, he convinces them to play against another team. At the match, Jerry and Laury express equal concern over the negative influence Rocky may be having on the gang. While walking home, Frazier''s hit squad makes an attempt on Rocky''s life. He survives and retaliates by kidnapping Frazier, raiding his house at gunpoint and stealing $2,000 and a ledger. Frazier''s business partner, Mac Keefer (George Bancroft), gives Rocky his $100,000 in full, but Mac informs the police of the kidnapping. Rocky is arrested, but after discovering he has possession of the ledger, Frazier tells the police it was all a "misunderstanding", and Rocky is released. Jerry learns of the kidnapping, and decides to go to the press to expose corruption in New York. Rocky tries unsuccessfully to reason with him. On the radio, Jerry denounces the corruption, as well as Rocky, Frazier and Keefer. Frazier and Keefer assure Rocky that no harm will come to Jerry, but he overhears their plans to kill them both. Rocky kills Frazier and Keefer instead and, after escaping the casino, makes his way to an abandoned warehouse where he kills a police officer. A standoff ensues with other police. Jerry arrives and tries to reason with Rocky, telling him the entire building is surrounded, but Rocky takes him hostage. While trying to escape, Rocky is shot in the leg and caught. After standing trial, he is sentenced to death. On the night of his execution, Jerry pleads with Rocky to show people that he died a coward by begging for mercy on his way to the death house, citing the negative influence he has had on Soapy and the gang as his reason. Rocky refuses, but on his way to the electric chair, he does start begging and screaming for mercy. Later, Soapy and the gang read of how Rocky "turned yellow" in the face of his execution, and they lose all respect for him.'
'comedy','Frustrated at being upstaged in the press by a colleague who''s making headlines with her aristocratic fiancé, movie star Annabel Allison insists that studio chief Howard Webb rehire dangerously resourceful publicist Lanny Morgan. Allison, Morgan, Josephine, and Poochy depart by train for Chicago on a public-appearance tour in conjunction with the premiere of Allison''s latest film. Morgan accidentally sends Allison through a trap door as she addresses the Chicago audience, and he attempts unsuccessfully to capitalize on the mishap for PR purposes by exaggerating Allison''s injuries. While recuperating in her hotel, Allison learns that author Ronald River-Clyde is staying down the hall, and she realizes his aristocratic title could solve her publicity problems. She and Morgan work independently to manipulate River-Clyde into a high-profile date with Annabel; but when Annabel gets so carried away with her fantasies of accommodating the viscount''s presumed loftiness that she decides to shun publicity, she finds herself at cross purposes with her press agent. While Annabel pursues a quiet relationship with River-Clyde, Lanny keeps trying to push them into the spotlight. Meanwhile, an initially baffled River-Clyde has been persuaded by his publisher to use Annabel for his own publicity, so he does not resist Annabel''s romantic pursuit of him. When Annabel goes so far as to give up her career, Morgan tries to break up the romance, for which purpose he engages a hotel manicurist with Hollywood ambitions to confront River-Clyde onstage at Annabel''s rescheduled premiere, claiming to be an abandoned wife. The manicurist is a dolt and the stunt does not come off; but, immediately thereafter, River-Clyde is confronted by his real wife and children, who have traveled from England to intervene, with legal assistance. Annabel and her entourage escape the process server by boarding a train. When Morgan discovers that River-Clyde and his family are also on the train, he disconnects the caboose so that Annabel and her party drift free.'
'comedy, drama','Capt. Dike Conger and M/Sgt. "Three Star" Hennessy are sent with their new light tank for tests against horse cavalry under desert conditions. In an extended hell for leather race amongst a variety of obstacles, their tank wins against Col. Armstrong''s 31st Cavalry. During this period the Colonel''s daughter Julie masquerades as a Southern Belle with no connection with the army to date Dike who vows to have nothing to do with Army Girls; the daughters of officers or soldiers. Enjoying each other''s company Dike discovers that Julie is actually the Colonel''s daughter but has fallen in love with her. Due to the tank winning the competition, Army Headquarters orders that Captain Dike Conger take over the command of the 31st Cavalry from the kindly old Colonel Armstrong. Though Julie and the officers and troopers of the Regiment despise Dike for doing this, the gentlemanly Colonel Armstrong suggests a scheme to win his Regiment over; the Colonel and Dike swap mounts. However, in a wild ride inside the tank both the Colonel and "Three Star" are killed when the tank goes out of control. Dike is court martialled but all discover an unsavoury truth.'
'comedy, musical','The story starts off with Joan Bennett playing Patricia Harper the Heiress of a billionaire oil tycoon, James Harper, having dinner with Mrs. Isabel Channing and Elliott Winthrop whom Mrs. Channing wants Patricia to marry. Caught up in Mrs. Channing’s need to behave ‘proper’ Patricia expresses her wish to live a normal life and enjoy simple mundane things. Elliott announces his promotion as US ambassador to France. He is then called away to the consulate to handle a problem at the gate. This is where Elliott meets the American dance troupe led by Buck Boswell (Jack Benny) asking for an emergency fare back to the U.S. . Elliott declares that there is no such contingency in the budget for such an occasion or else no one would buy a return flight home and wishes them luck before presumably returning to dinner. Buck then promises the troop that he’ll get them back and brings them to an expensive hotel on the premise that they don’t have the money to pay for it regardless so they might as well live it up. Upon their arrival, Buck and The Yacht Club Boys (named Swifty, Dopey, Jimmy, and Kelly in the film) convince the owner of the hotel that they have money and are used to paying at the end of their stay instead of the beginning. The owner mesmerized by the thought that all Americans have money allows them to move into their rooms against the will of his wife. However the next day, while the troupe is practicing their cowboy & Indians routine, the hotel owners wife locks them out of their rooms and in order for their rooms to be unlocked she insists that they pay their bill. With their stuff requisitions the guys are pushed by the girls to go out and find jobs so that they can have their stuff back. Buck receives 5 francs from one of the girls, the last 5 francs to any of the troupe''s name. Walking down the street, Buck is called on by Patricia Harper who recognizes him as American by his cowboy outfit. She tells him that she has left her money in her hotel room and asks him to cover the 3 franc bill for her breakfast, which he does. Then, thinking she’s a scammer who also has not a penny to her name, he invites her to act with his troupe. Seeking adventures as a normal person- Patricia keeps her wealth a secret a plays along. They go back to the hotel and Patricia pretends to be suicidal and lures the staff to the roof, meanwhile, the troupe grabs the keys to get their stuff. After the scene the staff wises up and calls the police on the troupe who is joined by Patricia''s’ father whom found her after she let Mrs. Channing know she wasn’t coming home. The troupe is now forced to climb through the window and parkour to another building in order to escape the police. Still running from the police they manage to hide out in an old studio full of mannequins that they think is abandoned. After evading the police by posing as mannequins they decide to spend the night. Upon waking up they hear people talking- thinking it’s the police they prepare to run. Overhearing a producers conversation buck realizes that it’s a theater that’s putting on a performing arts piece. Buck runs into another troupe from Russia who thinks he is the producer and he turns them away for his troupe to take their spot. After rehearsals, Patricia''s father sees the royal jewels in a case and asks if he can buy it- not realizing what it is. After being declined he swipes it before the troupe leaves. Upon realizing the jewels are gone there is a mad hunt for the jewel thieves. Patricia’s father has a copy of it made for Patricia, as a present. The two Jewels get mixed up while Patricia’s father shows it to Ms. Channing. Buck is back at Patricia’s father’s hotel where he planned on gifting the replica necklace to her. He hides it but buck finds it while snooping around, suspicious of her father. There is a knock on the door and a mad scramble to ditch the hotel room. While this is going on Buck stays behind and is introduced to a man while the troupe is running away away because they think it’s the police still after them. The man turns out to be an oil magnate who Patricia father plans to sell his oil to, and Buck, thinking that the old man is running a scam on the oil magnate, rips up the contract. Buck then becomes wise and tells the troupe that he’ll get them home by returning the jewels and either the French being grateful and giving them fare home or by thinking they stole it and deporting them. The French lock him and the troupe up but upon realizing the jewels were a replica they let Buck go and sent people to follow him. Buck goes to confront Patricia and her father who are out at dinner with Elliot and Ms. Channing. There’s a struggle and the jewels get stuck on the roof, after retrieving it they are all promptly arrested. Back at the police station everything comes to light about everyone’s real identity. Everyone is released and Buck & Patricia get married with their new found riches.'
'comedy','Johann Porok, a third-generation butler in the service of Count Albert Sandor, the Prime Minister of Hungary, is unexpectedly elected to the Hungarian parliament, representing the opposition social progressive party. Despite this, he insists on remaining a servant as well. Count Sandor is pleased with this peculiar arrangement, as he has found Johann to be the perfect butler and does not wish to break in a new man. His daughter, Baroness Katrina Marissey, however, considers Johann a traitor and treats him very coldly. In parliament, Johann attacks the Prime Minister, his employer, for yearly promising much to the poor underclass and delivering nothing, always citing "difficulties". To Katrina''s puzzlement, the Count is not offended in the least and remains quite friendly with Johann. Within three months, Johann becomes the leader of his party. Katrina becomes more and more furious, finally throwing her purse and striking Johann in parliament during one of his scathing speeches. When his colleagues assume it was thrown by someone from the ruling conservative party, a brawl breaks out, and Johann and the Prime Minister hastily depart. Baron Georg Marissey, Katrina''s husband and another member of parliament, later informs them that a vote of confidence was held after they left; the Count lost and will have to resign as Prime Minister. He is pleased to be able to spend more time with his wife. However, he reluctantly discharges Johann, as he has been neglecting his duties as head butler. They part good friends. When Katrina holds a ball, her ambitious husband invites Johann without her knowledge. Left alone together, Katrina gradually warms to Johann. Then he confesses that he loves her, and that is why he is trying to better himself, even though he knows his cause is hopeless. Katrina embraces and kisses him. They are interrupted by Georg and Major Andros, another ardent admirer of Katrina. In private, Georg offers to divorce Katrina in return for Johann nominating him for the office of Minister of Commerce. Despite Katrina''s strong opposition, Johann does just that in parliament. However, Katrina denounces the bargain in public, and Georg is forced to leave the parliamentary chamber in disgrace. In the final scene, Johann Porok is served breakfast in bed by the "maid", Katrina, who is revealed to be Mrs. Porok.'
'comedy','Homer C. Bundy (Raymond Walburn), the president of the Bundy Steel Company of Bundy, Pennsylvania, sends troublesome employees "Big" Ben Wheeler (Victor McLaglen) and "Chesty" Webb (Brian Donlevy) to New York City to break up Bundy''s son Jack''s (Robert Kellard) engagement to suspected gold digger Marjorie Clark (Lynn Bari). Jack discovers his father''s plot, and turns the tables on the brawling steelworkers: he asks gorgeous Linda Lee (Gypsy Rose Lee)--the object of the competitive Big Ben''s and Chesty''s amorous pursuits—to pretend she''s his fiancé, to put the boys off the trail. Trouble ensues when Homer arrives in NYC...and falls for Linda.'
'musical comedy','In what is being billed as "The Race of the Ages," the new forty-million-dollar “radio powered” Streamlined Ocean Liner S.S. Gigantic (“America’s Challenge for Crossing Record”) is about to race its rival, the slightly smaller S.S. Colossal across the Atlantic from New York’s Pier 97 to Cherbourg in two-and-a-half days. Gigantic owner T. Frothingill “T.F.” Bellows (W. C. Fields) intends to send his nearly identical younger brother S.B. (also Fields) to sail aboard the Colossal, hoping he will cause trouble and sabotage the rival ship, enabling the Gigantic and his own Bellows Line to win. However S.B., who is held back due to a golf game, ends up flying over the ocean to meet the Colossal en route and mistakenly lands aboard the deck of the Gigantic instead, much to the consternation of Captain Stafford (Russell Hicks). Matters are made worse for the Gigantic when S.B.’s outrageously unlucky daughter Martha (Martha Raye) is brought onboard, being rescued after surviving the shipwreck of the yacht, Hesperus V. Popular OBC radio emcee Buzz Fielding (Bob Hope), who has just been released from “alimony jail” and is broadcasting live from the Gigantic, is trying to juggle his three ex-wives Cleo (Shirley Ross), Grace (Grace Bradley), and Joan (Lorna Gray); his lukewarm girlfriend Dorothy Wyndham (Dorothy Lamour); and his inept microphone assistant Mike (Ben Blue). Buzz does his best throughout the voyage to announce the progress of the race and introduce a series of musical acts for the pleasure of the passengers and OBC’s radio audience. Meanwhile, Dorothy is romanced by First Officer (and inventor of the Gigantic’s enormous radio power plant) Robert Hayes (Leif Erickson), just as Buzz and Joan get sentimental about their broken marriage.'
'comedy','In the trenches of World War I, Ollie, Stan and the rest of their army company are ready to go ''over the top'', but Stan is ordered to stay behind to guard the trench. Scenes of fighting are then followed by the caption ''Armistice''. Twenty years pass, and Stan is still guarding the post, as shown by the huge pile of bean cans he has accumulated, and the path he has worn pacing back and forth on guard. He is found by accident (after firing on a plane he sees approaching) and goes home, feted as a hero. Ollie, who has been married for a year to the formidable Mrs. Hardy (Minna Gombell), sees him in a newspaper and visits him in the veterans'' home. He finds Stan in a wheelchair, having apparently lost a leg, and invites him home. However, Stan is in fact just resting in another veteran''s wheelchair and Ollie only finds out he still has both legs after pushing him around in the chair and then carrying him. They reach Ollie''s automobile, which he says belongs to his wife and is ''practically new'', but Stan quickly manages to completely wreck it. The two men then start to climb thirteen flights of stairs to Ollie''s apartment, because they think the elevator is out of order. A man (James Finlayson) insults Ollie, leading to a lengthy argument. Then they run into a brattish kid (Tommy Bond) with a football, which results in Ollie kicking his ball down the stairwell, leading to another argument with the kid''s burly father. When Ollie and Stan finally reach the apartment, Ollie''s wife disapproves of Ollie bringing home yet another bum, so Ollie has to prepare a meal for Stan, but the pair only succeed in blowing up the kitchen. Ollie''s attractive neighbor, Mrs. Gilbert (Patricia Ellis), offers to help clear up the mess, but herself gets soaked and ends up in a pair of Ollie''s enormous pajamas. Mrs. Hardy then returns, so Ollie and Stan have to hide her. When Mrs. Hardy finally leaves, Mrs. Gilbert''s husband arrives and when he sees his wife there, he chases Stan and Ollie down the stairs, firing a shotgun. A large number of men without trousers jump out of windows.'
'comedy','Michael Ashburn (Derrick De Marney) is the chief assistant to Rufus Trent (Cecil Kellaway), a wealthy London loan broker. Michael is socially prominent, but works for a living. He is engaged to Trent''s daughter, Roberta (Lilian Bond). The match had been engineered primarily by the socially-ambitious Mrs. Trent (Cecil Cunningham). As Michael is closing the shop late one afternoon, a man named Douglas (Olaf Hytten) takes out a large loan, using earrings worn by his niece, Julie (Joan Fontaine), as a deposit. He scurries right off with the money but, to his dismay, Michael finds that the earrings are fastened to Julie''s ears and cannot be removed. He now has to keep guard of her until Douglas returns with the money. Julie wants to go somewhere warm for the night. He hails a policeman to have her put in a jail cell so that she''s kept somewhere safe, but when the cop arrives, she tricks him into arresting Michael instead. She manages to swipe Michael''s house key and spends the night at his house. The next morning, the butler finds Julie in Michael''s bed. Michael arrives home with a cold after his night in jail. He doesn''t realize that Julie''s at his house. When Roberta arrives, angry, he calms her down, until she discovers Julie in Michael''s pajamas and in his bedroom. Roberta breaks off her engagement to Michael. Julie slips away in the confusion and arrives at a theatrical agency. Her "uncle" runs the agency and she quickly removes the earrings as he praises her night''s work. In reality, Julie is an actress and, with her successful work breaking the engagement between Michael and Roberta, is offered a leading role in a new production. Roberta arrives at home and tells her parents that the engagement is off. Trent is thrilled. It is revealed at this time that Trent hired Douglas''s agency to break the engagement. At work Michael is being called to the carpet by Trent for loaning money without collateral when Mrs. Trent arrives and fixes everything so that Roberta and Michael are engaged again. Trent, upset that the wedding is still on, goes back to Douglas and tells him he won''t pay until the engagement is broken for good. Gilbert (Robert Coote), Trent''s assistant, dislikes Michael. He works with Julie by bringing in a box for Michael at work. Inside are Michael''s pajamas. Roberta is there when the box arrives and she isn''t happy to see the contents. Michael hurries her off when he sees Julie inside the shop vault. Michael takes Julie to her hotel room and stays with her when she pretends to be sick after her night outside. He arrives late for dinner with Roberta and her friends. When she questions him, he admits to being with Julie, but he reassures her that Julie is very sick in bed. At that instant Julie shows up looking glamorous. Fed up, Roberta leaves, but Michael insists on staying because he has to keep an eye on the earrings. Alone with Michael, Julie confesses that she was trying to break up his engagement on purpose that night because she didn''t think he should be married simply because he comes from a prominent family. As they share a cozy ride in a carriage, Michael makes overtures to having feelings for Julie. She tries to explain about the earrings when they are held up by robbers. They want the earrings. Michael explains that they cannot be removed, but one of the robbers threatens to cut Julie''s ears off to get to them. She takes the earrings off easily and gives them to the robbers. Furious, Michael admits to being a fool. He leaves her. Trent doesn''t want to pay Douglas, so he gets a note at dinner asking Trent to meet Douglas in Julie''s dressing room. Mrs. Trent follows Trent, demanding an explanation. Since Trent had finally paid up, Douglas lies and says that he had a scheme to break up Michael and Roberta''s engagement, but that Trent paid him off. The truth comes out accidentally when Julie refuses to continue with the plan. The police arrive when Michael recognizes one of the robbers—the one who threatened to cut off Julie''s ears—as a waiter at the club. The waiter tells the police that Roberta paid him to rob Julie and Michael. He breaks into Julie''s show and tells her he loves her.'
'comedy','On the French Riviera, wealthy businessman Michael Brandon wants to buy pajamas, but just the tops. When the store refuses to sell them without the pants, they are at an impasse. Fortunately, an attractive woman named Nicole offers to buy the bottoms. At the hotel where he is staying, Michael has trouble sleeping, so the managers offer him a suite on a higher floor, further away from the sounds of the sea. The suite is occupied by the Marquis de Loiselle, who is two months in arrears. The penniless marquis, as it turns out, had sent Michael a business proposition, which Michael turns down. The marquis then offers to sell him a bathtub supposed owned by King Louis XIV, which he also rejects. Then Michael recognizes the mismatched pajama bottoms the marquis is wearing and, after discovering that Nicole is the man''s daughter, buys the bathtub. He then pursues Nicole and proposes to her the same day. She turns him down, but eventually changes her mind and accepts. However, she is horrified to learn that Michael has been married seven times before. She calls off the wedding, much to her father''s dismay. Michael explains that he gives each of his wives a prenuptial agreement guaranteeing $50,000 a year for life if they divorce. He gives in when Nicole demands double that amount. During their honeymoon and afterward in their home in Paris, Nicole keeps her discontented husband at arm''s length, hoping to obtain a divorce, but that only strengthens his natural tenacity. After reading Shakespeare''s The Taming of the Shrew, he tries to follow Petruchio''s example, but Nicole proves too strong for him. She writes anonymous letters to him claiming that she has a lover, but Monsieur Pepinard, the private detective he hires, assures him that there is nothing to it. Nicole then blackmails Pepinard into finding her a fake lover, a boxer named Kid Mulligan, so Michael can catch her alone with him. Complications ensue when her friend Count Albert De Regnier picks the wrong time to return a purse she left behind and is mistaken for her husband by Kid Mulligan (and knocked out). Fortunately for Nicole, Michael assumes that Albert is her lover and finally gives her a divorce. Six months later, Michael has a nervous breakdown. Nicole tries to see him in the sanitarium, but is not allowed in. Luckily, Michael has been put into a straitjacket after spotting her father, who has arranged for her to get in. Nicole tells Michael that she loved him at first sight, but had to break him of his habit of marrying so often. Now that she is financially independent, she explains, he can see that she does not want to (re)marry him for his money. He frees himself from his straitjacket, advances on her menacingly, then embraces her.'
'comedy','Two screenwriters, Law and Benson (James Cagney and Pat O''Brien), are in need of a story for cowboy star Larry Toms (Dick Foran). When studio waitress Susie Seabrook (Marie Wilson) faints in the office of producer C.F. Friday (Ralph Bellamy) because she is pregnant, the writers get an idea for a story about a cowboy and a baby, and cast Susie''s unborn baby Happy in the part. The story will be the classic Hollywood tale: Boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl. When they all leave to sell the idea to their boss, Susie meets and is intrigued by, Rodney Bowman (Bruce Lester), a good-looking young Englishman who is an extra on one of the studio''s films. Larry is tired of having a scene-stealing baby as a co-star, and his agent, Rossetti (Frank McHugh), devises a scheme to have Larry woo Susie in order to marry her and, as Happy''s father, get him out of show business and into a normal life. When they hear about this, Benson and Law hire Rodney, unaware that Susie knows him, to pretend to be Susie''s long-lost husband, Happy''s father; Rodney thinks it''s just an acting job, and is not in on the deception. Their plan works, and Larry disavows any planned future with Susie, but an wanted result is that Baby Happy is fired due to the scandal. When their plot is exposed, the two writers are fired, and Law makes plans to move to Vermont to suffer and write the Great American Novel, but Benson, whose wife has just left him, is too deep in debt to leave - so they come up with another plan. They have a friend in London send a wire to B.K. (Pierre Watkin), the head of the studio, with an offer from a British studio to buy it, as long as Baby Happy is under contract. Under the circumstances, Happy, Benson and Law are all re-hired. Just then, Rodney bursts into the office and asks Susie to marry him and come to England. Benson and Law try to persuade Susie that Rodney is a no-good cheat and philanderer only after her money, but the American representative of the British studio shows up to identify him as the son of an English lord. The rep also reveals that the plan to purchase the studio is a fraud. Producer C.F. wants to fire Benson and Law again, but their new contracts are iron-clad. Susie leaves with Rodney, heading for England, and C.F. learns that his wife is pregnant.'
'drama','A convicted murderer asks to make his confession on the day of his execution. He is visited by an old friend, Father Flanagan (Spencer Tracy) who runs a home for indigent men in Omaha, Nebraska. When the prison officials suggest that the condemned man owes the state a debt, Father Flanagan witnesses the condemned man''s diatribe to prison officials and a reporter that describes his awful plight as a homeless and friendless boy who was a ward in state institutions. After the convicted man asks the officials to leave, Father Flanagan provides some comfort and wisdom. On the train back to Omaha, Father Flanagan is transformed in his humanitarian mission by revelations (echoed in the words) imparted by the condemned man''s litany of hardships experienced as a child without friends or family as a ward of the state. Father Flanagan believes there is no such thing as a bad boy and spends his life attempting to prove it. He battles indifference, the legal system, and often even the boys, to build a sanctuary that he calls Boys Town. The boys have their own government, make their own rules, and dish out their own punishment. One boy, Whitey Marsh (Mickey Rooney), is as much as anyone can handle. Whitey''s older brother, in prison for murder, asks Father Flanagan to take Whitey — a poolroom shark and tough talking hoodlum — to Boys Town. Whitey''s older brother escapes custody during transfer to federal prison. Whitey stays, though, and runs for mayor of Boys Town, determined to win with his "don''t be a sucker" campaign slogan. When the boys instead elect handicapped Tony Ponessa (Gene Reynolds) and reject Whitey''s shoddy campaigning, Whitey decides to leave. Only little Pee Wee (Bobs Watson), the Boys Town mascot, catches up with him and pulls on his sleeve, pleading, “We’re going to be pals, ain’t we?” Whitey, nearly in tears refuses and pushes the child to the ground and tells him to go back. He then storms across the highway, and Pee Wee, caught in the tail wind, is too upset about his hero to think about oncoming traffic. When Pee Wee begins to cry, he is hit by a car, Whitey leaves, feeling guilty and hurt. He accidentally comes upon a bank robbery in Omaha and runs into Joe, who mistakenly shoots him in the leg. Joe takes Whitey to a church and calls Flanagan anonymously, after which Whitey is taken back to Boys Town. The sheriff comes to get Whitey, but Flanagan offers to take full responsibility for the boy. Whitey refuses to tell Flanagan about the robbery, because he has promised not to inform on Joe, but when he realizes that his silence could result in the end of Boys Town, he goes to Joe''s hideout. Joe, realizing with Whitey that Boys Town is more important than themselves, releases his brother from his promise. His cohorts want to kill Whitey, but Joe protects him until Flanagan and the boys arrive at their hideout. The criminals are recaptured and Boys Town''s reward is a flood of donations. A now committed Whitey is elected the new mayor of Boys Town by acclamation and Dave resigns himself to go into more debt as Flanagan tells him of his new ideas for expanding the facility.'
'drama','Tommy Martin (Bobby Breen) and his mother, Martha Martin (Dolores Costello) say goodbye to Henry and Reuben Johnson (John ''Dusty'' King and Delmar Watson). After having stopped by the Mennonite farm, where Tommy and Martha stay with the William and Annie Decker (Robert Barrat and Dorothy Peterson), the Johnsons are headed back to their hometown of Goshen. That night over dinner, Tommy, Martha and the Decker’s discuss the possibility of Tommy and Martha returning to their home in Kansas to work their farm, having fully recovered from the death of Mr. Marti. William Decker does not wish to allow them to return without the help of a man on the farm. Tommy suggests that Henry Johnson would be happy to assist. Mrs. Decker agrees that Henry had displayed affections for Martha while he was at the farm. It is decided that in order to get both Tommy and Martha home, $92 would be needed in order to pay the train fare home. To Martha’s dismay, William writes Henry for the $92 if he wishes to marry Martha and send her home. Henry is to respond with a letter detailing his answer. William gives the letter to Tommy, who is to mail it when he is through with his chores. Instead, Tommy tears the letter up and does not send it.[6] Enter Samuel Terwilliger (Charles Ruggles), a street-smart, money-making man. Tommy tells Mr. Terwilliger that he has saved old newspapers for him to buy. As Tommy runs in the house to get the papers, a man comes by to drop off money for William Decker for a tobacco sale. Tommy takes the money and sets it on William’s desk. Next to the desk is the trunk where Tommy kept the newspapers. While Tommy was rummaging through the trunk, one of the twenty dollar bills on the desk landed in a newspaper, to be taken to Mr. Terwilliger. As Tommy and Mr. Terwilliger get to talking Tommy learns about Philadelphia, Mr. Terwilliger’s home town. That evening, Tommy decides to go to Philadelphia with Mr. Terwilliger, so he sneaks out of the house and hops in Mr. Terwilliger’s wagon. Mr. Terwilliger and Tommy travel along the next day, and after a close-call with a train, make it to Philadelphia. Soon Tommy gets a job at the adjacent ice rink, scraping the ice after the performers practice. Back at home, William has discovered the missing twenty dollars, and blames Tommy for taking it. Every week, Tommy sends a letter home with a dollar, but William remains angry. One day as Tommy is scraping the ice, he sings along to a song the band is playing. The manager of the rink offers to hire him on as a singer for the shows. Mr. Terwilliger acts as Tommy’s manager, and negotiates a wage. Later Tommy finds out that Mr.Terwilliger had been secretly keeping Tommy’s money. Tommy uses the stashed money to return home. Upon his return home, he is greeted with joy from everyone except for William, who insists on the return of his twenty dollars. Tommy traces the money back in his mind, and realizes that it fell into one of the newspapers Mr. Terwilliger used to stuff an antique chair. The two of them then run around the country in order to seek the chair, and find the twenty dollars. Finally, they locate the chair, and bring the twenty dollars back home. With all debts cleared, Tommy and Martha can finally go home to Goshen where they run the farm with Henry and Reuben Johnson.'
'comedy','David Huxley (Cary Grant) is a mild-mannered paleontologist. For the past four years, he has been trying to assemble the skeleton of a Brontosaurus but is missing one bone: the "intercostal clavicle". Adding to his stress is his impending marriage to the dour Alice Swallow (Virginia Walker) and the need to impress Elizabeth Random (May Robson), who is considering a million-dollar donation to his museum. The day before his wedding, David meets Susan Vance (Katharine Hepburn) by chance on a golf course when she plays his ball. She is a free-spirited, somewhat scatterbrained young lady unfettered by logic. These qualities soon embroil David in several frustrating incidents. Susan''s brother Mark has sent her a tame leopard named Baby (Nissa) from Brazil. Its tameness is helped by hearing "I Can''t Give You Anything But Love". Susan thinks David is a zoologist, and manipulates him into accompanying her in taking Baby to her farm in Connecticut. Complications arise when Susan falls in love with him and tries to keep him at her house as long as possible, even hiding his clothes, to prevent his imminent marriage. David''s prized intercostal clavicle is delivered, but Susan''s aunt''s dog George (Skippy) takes it and buries it somewhere. When Susan''s aunt arrives, she discovers David in a negligee. To David''s dismay, she turns out to be potential donor Elizabeth Random. A second message from Mark makes clear the leopard is for Elizabeth, as she always wanted one. Baby and George run off. The zoo is called to help capture Baby. Susan and David race to find Baby before the zoo and, mistaking a dangerous leopard (also portrayed by Nissa) from a nearby circus for Baby, let it out of its cage. David and Susan are jailed by a befuddled town policeman, Constable Slocum (Walter Catlett), for acting strangely at the house of Dr. Fritz Lehman (Fritz Feld), where they had cornered the circus leopard. When Slocum does not believe their story, Susan tells him they are members of the "Leopard Gang"; she calls herself "Swingin'' Door Susie" and David "Jerry the Nipper".[a] Eventually, Alexander Peabody (George Irving) shows up to verify everyone''s identity. Susan, who escaped out a window during a police interview, unwittingly drags the highly irritated circus leopard into the jail. David saves her, using a chair to shoo the big cat into a cell. Some time later, Susan finds David, who has been jilted by Alice because of her, on a high platform working on his brontosaurus reconstruction at the museum. After showing him the missing bone which she found by trailing George for three days, Susan, against his warnings, climbs a tall ladder next to the dinosaur to be closer to him. She tells David that her aunt has given her the million dollars, and she wants to donate it to the museum, but David is more interested in telling her that the day spent with her was the best day of his life. The ladder starts swaying more and more from side to side. Susan tells him that she loves him too, then notices her danger. Frightened, she climbs onto the skeleton, causing it to collapse, but David grabs her hand and lifts her onto the platform. He then resigns himself to a future of chaos and destruction and hugs and kisses Susan.'
'comedy','At the Virginia Military Institute, roommates Billy Randolph (Wayne Morris), Dan Crawford (Ronald Reagan) and Bing Edwards (Eddie Albert) are three good-natured troublemakers who are trying to clean up their act in the weeks leading up to graduation. Still, try as they might, they cannot seem to stop breaking the rules. When the secretly married Edwards learns his wife (Jane Bryan) is pregnant, his preoccupation leads to events that really send everything out of order.'
'drama','The intended wedding of Captain Hugh "Bulldog" Drummond (John Howard) to Phyllis Clavering (Heather Angel) at her villa in Switzerland is stopped short (once again) when someone murders the Swiss policeman who is guarding their wedding presents. The killer makes off with their prize possession, a synthetic diamond, made by a secret process by Professor Bernard Goodman (Halliwell Hobbes), the father of their good friend Gwen Longworth (Nydia Westman). A guest, Sir Raymond Blantyre (Matthew Boulton), head of the Metropolitan Diamond Syndicate, disappears at the same time, and Drummond suspects that Sir Raymond, who has the most to lose if Professor Goodman proceeds with his plans to publish his secret process, has something to do with the theft. He leaves Phyllis and chases back to England. Colonel Nielsen (John Barrymore), of Scotland Yard, as usual scoffs at Drummond''s suspicions and insists that a man as respected as Sir Raymond could not possibly be involved in such a crime. An explosion that wrecks Goodman''s house, and apparently kills him, makes Drummond more positive that the diamond king has again resorted to murder to protect his business. He follows Professor Botulian (Porter Hall), a lifelong rival of Goodman''s, whom he believes to be involved in the affair. His hunt leads him to a lonely house on the outskirts of London where he finds Goodman a prisoner. Drummond''s valet Tenny (E.E. Clive) soon joins them as captive, but brings with him the means of escape. After Goodman is taken to safety, Drummond discovers that Phyllis, who was searching for him, is now being held by the crooks. Drummond quickly returns to the house to confront Sir Raymond and his armed confederates. Drummond begins to fight his way out, but is met by superior forces. Loosely based upon The Third Round (1924) by Herman Cyril McNeile'
'adventure','Adventuring author Jean Williams is living in the wilds of Alaska alongside the Eskimo people gathering material for her novel. She befriends several animals who become her loyal friends such as a pair of bear cubs whose mother has been killed by hunter Gaston Rogers, a talking raven and the bereaved collie Firefly who will not leave the grave of her master, a game warden killed in the line of duty. The community is imperiled by a pack of wolves and wild dogs, led by a wild dog called Swift Lightning, who are killing all the reindeer. With the supply of fresh meat gone, the Eskimos are migrating to lands with more food. Hunter Gaston agrees to take Jean to Nenana, Alaska, along with his furs by dog sled. Jean, who despises Gaston as being more savage and blood thirsty than the four-legged predators, is followed by her loyal animals. The pair face attacks by wolves, an avalanche and being trapped on a river whose ice floes are melting.'
'comedy','Wayne Atterbury, Sr., is president of Middleton College, where he tolerates no foolishness. So when his milquetoast son, Wayne Jr., enrolls as a freshman, the boy makes it clear to newspaper reporter Joyce Gilmore and to every student he meets that school must be all work and no play. This makes him instantly unpopular. Hank Luisetti plays basketball for the school, which has never had a winning team. He is tempted to switch to a different college when Wayne Jr. offers his father''s estate as a training camp. Luisetti is surprised when Wayne turns out to have a knack for the game himself. He becomes a basketball star and Joyce becomes a lot more interested in him. A big game against arch-rival State U is coming up, and Middleton finally has a shot at winning. Hank, however, flunks math, so Dean Wilton needs to suspend him from the team. The stuffed-shirt Atterbury watches his son play basketball and gets so excited about winning, he approves a new math test for Hank while the game''s in progress. Hank passes, then scores 24 points in the final period to help carry Middleton to victory, whereupon both Atterburys are carried off by the happy crowd.'
'musical comedy','Psychiatrist Dr. Tony Flagg (Fred Astaire) does his friend Stephen Arden (Ralph Bellamy) a favor by taking on his fiancee, Amanda Cooper (Ginger Rogers), as a patient. Amanda, a singer on the radio, can''t seem to make a decision about Stephen''s many proposals of marriage, so Tony probes with her subconscious mind. He is to interpret her dreams. When Amanda dreams of dancing with her doctor, she''s convinced that she''s in love and to avoid telling Tony about the dream, makes up a wild dream. This leads Tony to believe that Amanda has serious psychiatric problems and he hypnotizes her to act on her impulses. By some chance, Stephen comes by, not knowing that she''s under the spell and Amanda is crazy in public. The next day, there is a party and Amanda gets Tony to dance with her (the Yam) and in the process of trying to tell Stephen that she''s in love with her doctor, Stephen thinks that she''s saying that she''s in love with him. Amanda then dances with Tony, telling him that "something terrible has happened, and you''re mixed up in it." So, good old Tony hypnotizes Amanda again, saying that Tony does not love her and that "Men like him should be shot down like dogs." Alas, Amanda gets out again and finds a gun at the country club and starts shooting at Tony. Suddenly, Tony realizes that he''s in love with Amanda and desperately tries to undo his doing. Stephen accuses him of trying to take his wife away. At Amanda and Stephen''s wedding day, he sneaks in and wants to punch Amanda so that she is unconscious and he can hypnotize her but can''t bring himself to do it. Stephen barges in, aims a punch at Tony but smacks Amanda unconscious instead. Tony then tells Amanda that he loves her, and they''re married.'
'mystery','The film opens with Detective Chan rushing to the hospital to be with his daughter as she prepares to give birth to his first grandchild. While Charlie Chan waits at the hospital, his "number two" son Jimmy intercepts a message intended for Charlie about a murder on board the freighter Susan B. Jennings. The freighter is on its way from Shanghai to Honolulu under the leadership of Captain Johnson (Robert Barrat). Jimmy wants to prove his investigative skills to his father and so boards the Jennings pretending to be Charlie Chan, with his younger brother Tommy (Layne Tom Jr.) in tow. The ruse doesn''t last long and soon the real Chan arrives on board, interrogating a motley assortment of crooks, heiresses and crew as he works to solve a crime whose only witness is secretary Judy Haynes (Phyllis Brooks).'
'drama','An ambulance chaser, unethical and disliked by many, attorney Thomas Z. Brandon chases cases in the street, offering to represent clients on trumped-up charges. A street-car company''s owner, Calhoun, resents this practice and hires Dorothy Mason to go undercover to gain evidence against the attorney, pretending to be an accident victim. She sees how a doctor, Prescott, manipulates a client into memorizing certain false information to use in court. Dorothy learns that Thomas has a good explanation why he''s doing this and that Calhoun is actually unscrupulous himself. She perjures herself in court, and Thomas spurns her after learning of her deceit, but ultimately they fall in love and Thomas promises to act more ethically from now on.'
'drama, exploitation','Miss Carol (Diana Durrell) is an idealistic teacher in a remote one-room schoolhouse. A native of the Ozarks herself, she is determined to stop the practice of child marriage, in which older men marry teen or preteen girls. Her campaign raises the ire of some local men, led by Jake Bolby (Warner Richmond), who one night drag her into the woods and tie her to a tree, with the intention of tarring and feathering her. Before they can do this, however, Angelo the dwarf (Angelo Rossitto) and Mr. Colton (George Humphreys) arrive with a shotgun to save the day. Following this, Jake Bolby comes across young Jennie Colton (Shirley Mills) swimming naked. When her father dies, Bolby decides to take advantage of the opportunity to blackmail her mother into letting him marry the girl, threatening that otherwise he will see her hanged for murder. After he "courts" Jennie by giving her a doll, the two are married. It later turns out that this ceremony was illegal, as child marriage had been banned several days prior, but this point quickly becomes moot. Before Bolby can consummate the union, he is gunned down by Angelo. Jennie leaves his house with Freddie Nulty (Bob Bollinger).'
'drama, fantasy','On Christmas Eve in 19th-century London, Fred is sliding on ice on a sidewalk. He meets Peter and Tim Cratchit, sons of his uncle Ebenezer''s clerk, Bob Cratchit. When Fred reveals who he is, the boys take off in terror. Fred soon arrives at the counting-house of his miserly maternal uncle, Ebenezer Scrooge. After declining an invitation from his nephew to dine with him on Christmas, Scrooge dismisses two gentlemen’s collecting money for charity. That night, Scrooge reluctantly allows his employee Bob Cratchit to have Christmas off with pay but orders him back all the earlier the day after. Later on, Bob accidentally knocks off Scrooge''s hat with a snowball. Scrooge removes Bob from his position, withholding a week''s pay to compensate for his ruined hat as well as demanding a shilling to make up the difference. Bob spends the last of his wages on food for his family''s Christmas dinner. In his house, Scrooge is confronted by the ghost of his deceased business partner, Jacob Marley, who warns Scrooge to repent his wicked ways or he will be condemned in the afterlife as Marley was. He tells Scrooge he will be haunted by three time-traveling spirits. At one o''clock, Scrooge is visited by the youthful Ghost of Christmas Past, who takes him back in time to his early life. Scrooge is shown his unhappiness when he was left to spend the holidays alone at school, and his joy when his sister, Fran, came to take him home for Christmas. The spirit reminds Scrooge that Fran, dead for some years, is the mother of his nephew. Scrooge begins a successful career in business and money lending as an employee under Fezziwig. At two o''clock, Scrooge meets the merry Ghost of Christmas Present, who shows Scrooge how others keep Christmas. At a church service, Fred and his fiancée, Bess, are seen as happy and in love. The couple must wait to marry because of Fred''s financial circumstances, and the spirit observes that perhaps they will not marry at all and their love may end, just how Scrooge lost his unnamed fiancée in his youth. Scrooge is then shown the Cratchit home. Despite wearing a cheery manner for his family''s sake, Bob is deeply troubled by the loss of his job, though he confides in no one except his daughter Martha. The spirit hints that Bob''s youngest son, Timothy "Tiny Tim", will die of his unknown illness by the same time next year if things do not change. At three o''clock, the Ghost of Christmas Yet to Come arrives, appearing as a silent, cloaked figure. The spirit shows Scrooge what will happen if he does not change. Scrooge discovers Tiny Tim is dead and his family mourns for him. Scrooge also discovers that his own death will not be mourned. Scrooge promises to repent and returns home. Awakening in his own bed on Christmas Day, Scrooge is now a changed man. He orders a boy in the street below his window to buy a turkey for him, meaning to take it to the Cratchits. Running into the two men who petitioned him for charity the evening before, Scrooge gives a large donation. He visits Fred and makes him his new partner, then goes to the Cratchit house where he rehires Bob and increases his wages.'
'drama, crime','Bored with her life and with Don, her lawyer boyfriend, waitress Ellen Ward craves excitement. She accepts an invitation from Ritchie and Mike, a couple of petty crooks, and ends up giving them an alibi for a crime. Ritchie rewards her with $100. Ellen catches the eye racketeer Charles Blake, irking his moll Vivian, who attacks her with a pair of scissors. Ellen shoots her in self-defense. Ellen is badly injured and has her face radically altered by plastic surgery. Don becomes an assistant district attorney and helps an investigation into Blake''s activities, with Ellen, no longer recognizable, working undercover. Blake is about to shoot Don when, at the last instant, Ellen steps between them and is killed.'
'musical comedy','Johnny Prentice, a bandleader in Chicago with a bad temper, alienates some of his musicians and is in danger of losing custody of Half Pint, his son. He hires Linda Rogers to be the boy''s tutor. After being encouraged by Linda to pursue his dream of playing at the Cocoanut Grove nightclub in Los Angeles, they pack up friend Dixie''s new trailer and head west. At a trailer park, they run into Hula Harry and hear a song he''s composed. To his amazement, Johnny discovers that not only is Harry very talented, Linda is, too. The trailer breaks down in Kansas, but the good news is that garage owner Bibb Tucker is a talented fellow as well. He is invited to tag along. When the group reaches L.A., the club date has mistakenly gone to another band. Worse yet, Johnny''s apparent flirtation with Hazel De Vore leads to Linda boarding a bus and leaving for home. Discovering the mistake, Johnny''s musicians take matters into their own hands and keep the other band captive, Johnny goes after Linda and gets her back in time for that night''s show.'
'comedy','It''s 1738, and Gracie Alden (Gracie Allen) of the powerful Alden family fails to graduate from the college founded by her grandfather for the ninth year in a row, so he leaves it in his will to the first female of the family to graduate within 200 years. At the deadline, in 1938, another Gracie Alden, the last girl of the line, is having trouble with her studies, so she hires fast-talking Bud Brady (Bob Hope) to help her. Her efforts are opposed by woman-hating professor Hubert Dash (Edward Everett Horton) and his secretary George Jones (George Burns), who don''t want to see their beloved college fall into the hands of an empty-headed nit-wit like Gracie. When by hook and by crook Gracie manages to pass her exam and becomes the owner of the college, she does away with entrance exams, hires a bunch of incompetent but kooky teachers, and turns the place into a jumpin'' jitterbugging joint complete with swing bands and remote radio broadcasts.[1][2]'
'drama','Eve Appleton (Francis), wife of small-town garage owner Bill Appleton (Litel), has theatrical ambitions. Bill gets into an argument with a visiting actor over her, kills him accidentally, and is sent to prison. Eve, realizing her part in Bill''s fate, vows to right matters, and taking her infant daughter, goes away to make her way in the theatre. Later, Eve is forced to leave her baby girl with her friend Mrs. "Tim" Adams (Gombell). Bert Ballin (Hunter) befriends her and they fall in love, but she moves abroad and becomes a star. Back in America, as the "Toast of Broadway", she is brought back to a realization of her former vows by Joe Grant (Crisp), her hometown lawyer.'
'western romance','Mary Smith (Merle Oberon), daughter of presidential hopeful Horace Smith (Henry Kolker), has lived a cloistered life free of any scandal. Although she is devoted to her father and supports his political aspirations, she longs for a life of her own. Believing she needs some excitement in her life, Mary''s free-spirited Uncle Hannibal (Harry Davenport) takes her dancing at a nightclub, which the police raid for gambling. When Horace learns that press reporters have discovered Mary''s name on the police report, he sends his daughter off to the family''s Palm Beach, Florida mansion. For Mary, Palm Beach during the off season is a place of loneliness and boredom. She asks her two housemaids (Patsy Kelly and Mabel Todd) if she can go along with them on a blind date with some cowboys from a visiting rodeo. The two maids reluctantly agree. Feeling sorry for the inexperienced Mary, they coach her on their three-step "system" for getting a man interested: flatter him, get him talking about himself, and play on his sympathy with a hard-luck story. After the rodeo, the three women meet up with their dates at the Rodeo Cafeteria and pair off. Mary is immediately attracted to the tall, lanky, and unpretentious cowboy Stretch Willoughby (Gary Cooper) and arranges to be with him. After dinner, they continue their evening back at Mary''s beachfront estate. Aware that the plain-spoken Stretch is suspicious of high society rich folk, Mary pretends to be a lady''s maid whose "boss" is out of town. Mary attempts to get the shy cowboy interested by following the first two steps of the "system" but fails to attract his interest. Determined, she proceeds to the third step, inventing a hard-luck story about her drunken father and four younger sisters whom she alone must support. When she adds a tear or two to embellish her story, Stretch is won over, and the evening ends with the two kissing in the moonlight. The next morning, an enamoured Stretch appears at the mansion prepared to ask for Mary''s hand in marriage. Unprepared for this turn of events, Mary casually dismisses his awkward proposal. Angered at the rejection, Stretch tosses Mary into the swimming pool and storms off. Completely fascinated by this man who is unlike any other she''s met, Mary follows Stretch when he boards a ship for Galveston. Determined to apologize, Mary finally succeeds in getting the stubborn cowboy to listen to her, but she is unable to reveal her true identity. The days on board the ship bring the two closer together, and on the last night of the voyage, they are married by the ship''s captain. When the newly married couple arrives at Galveston, they set up temporary home in a tent at a rodeo camp. Mary does her best to adapt to the dusty and primitive conditions, but she is having a difficult time. Stretch senses Mary''s unease, but believes it stems from her worrying over her "family"—the fictitious drunken father and four younger sisters she''s supporting. He suggests she return to Palm Beach alone to settle her family obligations. Although she is ashamed of her continued deception, Mary fears Stretch will reject her if he learns the truth about her wealthy family. Stretch believes he''s married a "work horse" who works hard to support her family, not a "show horse" like her fictitious boss. Confused and miserable, Mary agrees to go back home for a few days and later meet up with Stretch at his ranch in Montana. Back at her Palm Beach mansion, Mary learns that her father is on his way with all his committee members, plus an important congressman who holds the presidential nomination in his power. Her sympathetic Uncle Hannibal arrives early, and Mary tearfully confides her secret marriage to him. When Mary''s father arrives, he assumes his daughter will serve as dutiful hostess and support his political plans. Feeling trapped again, Mary finally confesses to her father that she is married to a cowboy and plans to join him in Montana immediately. When she sees her father''s disappointment, however, she agrees to stay until her father secures the presidential nomination. At his Montana ranch, Stretch is busy preparing for Mary''s arrival and building a new house for his bride—but Mary never arrives. Stretch heads back to the Palm Beach mansion and insists on talking to Mary''s "employers". He bursts into the dining room, only to see his wife at the head of a dinner party table, surrounded by her father and his distinguished guests, who proceed to have a few laughs at the cowboy''s expense. When asked for his opinion about Mary''s father running for president, Stretch condemns the whole group for their behavior and leaves in anger. Seeing his daughter''s distress, Horace realizes that he has not been a good father, and comforts Mary as they listen to the whistle of the train that is taking her husband out of her life. Back in Montana, a subdued Stretch arrives home only to find his father-in-law sitting on his front porch, wanting to chat about farming. Horace tells Stretch that he has quit the presidential race because he now knows that Mary''s happiness is more important, acknowledging that Mary made sacrifices all her life, thinking only of her father, never herself. Upon entering the ranchhouse, the bewildered Stretch finds a party underway, Uncle Hannibal raiding the kitchen, and Mary herself baking a cake with Ma Hawkins. Soon after, the cowboy and the lady are seen kissing in Ma Hawkins kitchen.[1][3][4]'
'musical comedy','Singer Elly Jordan, a Brooklyn man who is terrified of animals, ends up broke along with his two musical partners at Hardy''s Dude Ranch in Two Bits, Wyoming. The Hardys, Ma and Pop, daughter Jane and son Jeff, hire the men to play for the dudes. Sam Thorne, Jane''s self-appointed boyfriend, ranch cowhand and amateur crooner, is jealous of Jane''s interest in Elly. Elly is so successful as a cowboy singer, that when theatrical agent Ray Chadwick arrives at the ranch on a vacation and hears him, he signs Elly immediately. Chadwick thinks that Elly is a real cowboy and Jane coaches him to talk like one. In spite of his fear of animals, he gets away with the deception. He makes a successful screen test as a cowboy, using the name Wyoming Steve Gibson, but he and Chadwick, who now knows the truth, fear that the deception will be revealed when the movie people arrive in New York from Hollywood with Elly''s contract. Meanwhile, Jane and some of the ranch people are traveling East as well so Sam can sing on Captain Rose''s Amateur Hour in New York. Jane tells Sam that she is in love with Elly and Sam is so angry that when he isn''t a big success on the show, he blurts out the truth about Elly''s background. To prove that Elly is on the level, Chadwick and his assistant Pat Dunn suggest that he compete in a rodeo. They take Elly to Professor Landis, who hypnotizes him. Under hypnosis, Elly leaps on a horse, rides to Madison Square Garden, enters the bulldogging contest and sets a new record. He sneezes and wakes from the hypnosis, but the movie people are convinced that he is a real cowboy. He signs the contract and kisses Jane to seal the deal.'
'drama','A ring of phony fortune tellers, led by Marvin, "the sightless seer" is in league with racketeers to defraud wealthy clients. Joe Ryan, a reporter, and Judy Allen, an actress agree to help the police by going undercover to expose the ring. Judy poses as a fortune teller, with the help of her friend, Kitty, who is a ventriloquist. While Ryan and Kitty are setting up the trap, Ryan''s rich friend, Phoebe Sawyer is duped by Marvin, who along with Lionel Whitmore, a personal finance manager, and Ray Taylor, an attorney. They set her up to take a long voyage, while they forge her name on a power of attorney and steal her fortune. While Phoebe is falling Marvin''s ploy, Ryan has successfully convinced the racketeering ring that he has been duped by Judy, and has the goods on them. Smelling a trap, the gangster Jenner has Ryan picked up to be "taken for a ride", by his two fellow gangsters, Dummy and Slim. Ryan is rescued by the police, who were sent by the assistant district attorney, Tom Redwine. Whitmore has Marvin killed, believing that Phoebe has left the country, and puts the plan to liquidate her assets in motion. In order to entrap Whitmore, Redwine has Dummy and slim released, who then, with the help of Phoebe, confronts and arrests Taylor. Hoping to escape, Whitmore kidnaps Judy and Kitty to use as a shield. However, the two girls are rescued by Joe and Redwine, along with the police.'
'drama','A junkman (Frank Otto) does business with the Dead End Kids: Frankie (Billy Halop), Squirt (Bobby Jordan), Spike (Leo Gorcey), Goofy (Huntz Hall), Fats (Bernard Punsly), and Bugs (Gabriel Dell). When the boys ask for a $20 payoff, "Junkie" says "Five is all you''ll get. Now take it and get out of here." In a rage, Spike strikes the man in the back of the head with a hard object, and the junkman falls to the floor and doesn''t move. When Judge Clinton (Charles Trowbridge) cannot convince the boys to divulge which one struck the damaging blow, they are all sent to reform school. The harsh warden of the reformatory, Morgan (Cy Kendall), inflicts discipline at the school and flogs Frankie after he tries to escape. The superintendent of the state reformatories, Mark Braden (Humphrey Bogart), visits the school and finds evidence of Morgan''s subtle cruelty, as in feeding his new inmates poor-quality food. He then visits Frankie in the hospital ward, finding him untreated and the doctor inebriated. As a way of starting over, he fires the doctor, Morgan, and four ex-convict guards, while retaining the head guard, Cooper (Weldon Heyburn). Braden takes charge of the reformatory himself and wins over the boys'' cooperation by considerate treatment, while romancing Frankie''s sister, Sue Warren (Gale Page). Meanwhile, Cooper is afraid that Braden will learn of Morgan''s embezzlement of the food budget, which would implicate him as well. He learns that Spike is the one who dealt the blow to the junkman and blackmails him. He gets him to tell Frankie that Braden''s generous treatment is due to his sister''s acceptance of Braden''s attentions. Although untrue, it causes the kids to escape from the school in Cooper''s car with his gun. They go to Sue''s apartment, and Frankie climbs the fire escape with the gun to confront Braden, but Sue and Braden dispel Frankie''s suspicions. Meanwhile, Cooper "discovers" that the kids have escaped, and Morgan calls the press to discredit Braden and get him fired. But, Braden drives the boys back to the reformatory and gets them into their beds, before the Commissioner (Frank Jaquet), alerted by Morgan, arrives for an inspection with the police in tow. Their plot foiled and their fraud uncovered, Morgan and Cooper are arrested. The boys are subsequently paroled into the care of their parents.'
'action','Tommy McCoy (Robert Taylor) becomes a boxer, not for love of the sport but for the money. He has to put up with his alcoholic, gambling father Brian (Frank Morgan). Just before his first major fight, Tommy learns that his opponent has been injured and has been replaced at the last minute by Tommy''s good friend, former world champion Johnny (William Gargan), trying to make a comeback. During the bout, Tommy kills Johnny and is named "Killer McCoy" in the newspapers. He then comes under the control of powerful bookmaker Jim Cain (Edward Arnold). While training, Tommy meets and falls in love with Cain''s daughter Sheila (Maureen O''Sullivan). Cain has been very careful to keep his daughter from learning about his profession. Cain tries to break up their romance, but without success. Tommy wins fight after fight, becoming a contender. If he wins his next bout, he will get a shot at the world championship title. However, "Pug" Walsh (Nat Pendleton), a traitorous associate of Cain''s, has both Sheila and Brian kidnapped. He orders Tommy to lose the fight in the eighth round, or else. Tommy has no choice; he endures a merciless pounding for round after round, not even daring to hit his foe for fear a lucky punch could end the match and his loved ones'' lives. Fortunately, Brian pretends to collapse, then manages to grab a gangster''s gun. He sends Sheila to the fight, while he holds their two former captors at gunpoint. However, while he is distracted by the radio broadcast of the fight, one of the men shoots him; he fires back, and all three are killed. Sheila arrives just before the start of the eighth round. Tommy proceeds to knock out his opponent, then announces he is giving up boxing. Cain also retires. Afterward, Tommy and Sheila get married.'
'mystery','Nan Grey, as Christina "Steenie" MacCorkle, a radio advertising executive, is suspected of murdering her client, Berton Churchill, as Caesar Kluck, a soda magnate. Loathed by all who met him, or forced to work, with his underhanded business machinations, the victims, and suspects, start piling up. Including thug, Joe Downing, as Gangster Joe Carney; Lee J. Cobb as Tony Lisotti, trying to protect his daughter, Louise Stanley, as Maria Lisotti, from being another notch on Kluck''s belt; and, Peter Lind Hayes, as Harry Lake, who is desperate to get on the air, seemingly at any cost.[1] It''s up to radio engineer Donald Woods, as Benjamin Franklin Butts, and "Steenie''s" brother, Frank Milan, as Alexander MacCorkle, to try to clear her, before the real murderer gets rid of another victim; unless, of course, it is one of them. Time is running out.[2] The novel contains footnotes, which are intended to be both funny and informative, as well as further commentary on the nature and philosophy of radio and broadcasting, than there is time for the movie to encompass.[3] The novel''s author Xanthippe, was the pseudonym of Edith Meiser who wrote and produced extensively for radio.[4] She is particularly known for her work on radio with the Sherlock Holmes mysteries.'
'war','In 1915, at the airdrome in France of the Royal Flying Corps'' 59th Squadron, Major Brand (Basil Rathbone), the squadron commander, and his adjutant Phipps (Donald Crisp) anxiously await the return of the dawn patrol.[Note 1] Brand is near his breaking point. He has lost 16 pilots in the previous two weeks, nearly all of them young replacements with little training and no combat experience. Brand is ordered to send up tomorrow what amounts to a suicide mission. Captain Courtney (Errol Flynn), leader of A Flight, and his good friend "Scotty" Scott (David Niven) return, but two of the replacements are not so lucky, and another, Hollister, is severely depressed by having witnessed the death of his best friend. The survivors repair to the bar in their mess for drinks and fatalistic revelry. Courtney does his best to console Hollister, but the youngster breaks down in grief. When Brand announces the next day''s dawn patrol, Courtney tells Brand he does not have enough men. Brand retorts that more replacements are on their way. From the four green pilots, Courtney picks the two with the most flying hours to go on the mission. Only four return this time; Scott has been lost along with the two new men. Courtney tells a sympathetic Brand that Scott went down saving Hollister. Just then, British troops bring in the German who downed Scott, Hauptmann Von Mueller (Carl Esmond). Courtney overcomes his initial rage when Brand informs Von Mueller that it was Courtney who shot him down, and the German graciously acknowledges him. Courtney then offers the German a drink. The guilt-ridden Hollister tries to attack the prisoner, but is restrained. Then, a grimy Scott appears. His fighter crashed, but he survived. B Flight is mauled next. Just after its wounded leader, Captain Squires (Michael Brooke), informs the squadron that the dreaded Von Richter is now their foe, an enemy aircraft flies low over their airdrome and drops a pair of trench boots. Attached is a taunting note telling the British pilots that they will be safer on the ground. Brand warns his men that the boots are intended to incite inexperienced pilots into trying to retaliate. He forbids any takeoffs without his express orders. Courtney and Scott disregard the prohibition, taking off in the dawn mist after stealing the boots from Brand''s room. They fly to Von Richter''s airfield, where the black-painted fighters are being readied for the day. Courtney and Scott bomb and strafe the field, destroying most of the German aircraft, and shoot down two which try to take to the air. Courtney then drops the boots. Von Richter retrieves them and shakes his fist at the departing British. Courtney is shot down recrossing the lines, then rescued by Scott, whose aircraft is also hit by anti-aircraft fire. When leaking oil blinds Scott, Courtney talks him down to a crash landing behind their own trenches. Brand''s outrage at their disobedience dissipates when headquarters congratulates him for the success of the attack and appoints him "up to Wing". Brand takes cruel pleasure in naming Courtney to take command of the 59th. Soon, Courtney is forced to acquire all the qualities he hated in Brand. When Scott''s younger brother Donnie is posted as a replacement, Scott begs Courtney to give him a few days so that he can teach his brother the ropes. Courtney tells him there can be no exceptions. Unbeknownst to Scott, Courtney calls headquarters to plead for a few days of training for his replacements, but is turned down. Von Richter shoots down Donnie in flames the next morning, for which Scott blames Courtney. Brand personally gives Courtney orders for a very important mission. A single aircraft must fly low and bomb a huge munitions dump 60 kilometers behind the lines. Brand bans Courtney from flying the mission, so Scott disdainfully volunteers. They reconcile and Courtney gets his friend too drunk to fly, then blows up the dump himself. Afterward, Von Richter intercepts Courtney. Although Courtney outduels and shoots down two of the enemy, including Von Richter, he is killed by a third pilot. Command of the squadron devolves on Scott. He lines up the decimated squadron for orders just as five replacements arrive. He stoically tells A Flight to be ready for the dawn patrol.'
'drama, crime','Marty Malone is a member of a street gang called the "Death Avenue Cowboys," consisting of poor children in Hell''s Kitchen, New York. As the gang try to steal fruit from a fruit warehouse, Marty starts a fire to distract the watchmen, unfortunately it turns into a real blaze and he is caught by the police. Even though the police give him a rough time in questioning, he refuses to say the names of any other gang members, thus saving his friends and accomplices from capture. Marty is sent to a reformatory for delinquents. Many years go by after that, and now Marty is the proud owner of the Cigarette Club, which is a cabaret and casino in Manhattan. In tending to his business, he sends men to strong-arm a customer reluctant to pay a gambling debt. The goons, Sam and Frank Diamond, beat the customer up, accidentally killing him. They try to make his death look as if a neon sign fell on him. The police emergency squad investigating the death includes brothers Joe and Mike O''Mara, who graduated from Marty''s childhood gang. Authorities dismiss the death as an accident, but Joe, eager to become a police detective, believes it was murder when he finds evidence that the support that gave way allowing the sign to fall was clearly cut rather than breaking with age. That evening there is a reunion dinner at Marty''s Cigarette Club, with the boyhood friends attending, including the O''Mara''s. Jerry Donovan is now a priest, and Helen McCoy has become a performer at the club. Helen has spurned Marty''s many proposals because she loves Mike O’Mara. Mike dances with Helen all evening. Brother Joe, striking out with the ladies, exits the dinner, returns to the scene of the murder, impatient to solve the crime he believes was committed. Diamond and Sam, having realized he may expose them, corner him and push him off the roof to his death. Later that evening, Marty arrives on the scene and is upset his incompetent thugs have perpetrated the murders. The homicide bureau dismisses Joe''s case as an accident, but Mike is unconvinced, and believes Joe''s death is connected to the previous one. He is also guilt stricken he didn''t accompany his brother to investigate his hunch on the incident that brought his death. Diamond and Sam rob a jewelry store, set off a bomb next to Marty''s club, and send notes to Mike incriminating Marty. Mike takes the bait, loses control and tries to kill Marty, but Jerry stops him, and Mike is arrested. Marty refuses to press charges, and also confesses his involvement to Jerry. He explains to Jerry that he never intended any deaths to occur. Diamond and Sam plan to rob the Polar Gardensa popular ice skating ring, and force Marty to participate through kidnapping Helen who wisely informs Jerry of where she is going. Diamond and Sam alert Mike of the plan who they hope will kill Marty. Mike again goes berserk, but Jerry again prevents Mike from killing Marty. In a shootout with the criminals, Marty dies taking a bullet intended for Mike. His death brings Mike and Helen together, and as Marty had requested, there is a playground built at Jerry''s boys club in Marty''s name.'
'drama','Modest, kind-hearted aspiring actress Louise Mauban (Luise Rainer) attends the Paris School of Drama while working nights at a dreary factory job, where she has made friends with another worker. She often comes to class late but rather than admit she has to work nights, she tells her fellow students stories of a luxurious life and her wealthy, handsome boyfriend, Marquis Andre D''Abbencourt (Alan Marshal). The other girls begin to suspect that her stories are just fantasies that she weaves to relieve her humdrum life. One of them, Nana (Paulette Goddard), maliciously invites Louise to her "birthday party", having arranged for Andre to attend. However, the plan backfires. Andre is enchanted by Louise and the lie turns into the truth. He showers her with gifts and takes her out every night. Andre eventually becomes enamored of another woman and breaks up with Louise by letter. When Louise''s friends show up, she tells them to take their pick of the fabulous clothes Andre has given her. However, to a late-arriving Nana, she shows the letter, as her "gift". Nana''s heart is softened to her rival and they become friends. One of the teachers is impressed by Louise''s sincerity and talent, but another teacher and aging star, Madame Therese Charlot (Gale Sondergaard), is jealous of Louise. Madame Therese is upset to learn from the school''s director, Monsieur Pasquel, Sr. (Henry Stephenson) that she will not get the leading role in a new play about Joan of Arc because she is no longer young enough. In her bitterness, she lashes out when Louise is late to class once again; she informs Louise that she will demand her expulsion. Louise follows her and, to Charlot''s surprise, thanks her. Louise explains that she believes that to be a great star, she must suffer, as Madame Charlot herself had suffered early in her own career. The next day, Louise defiantly returns to class. Madame Charlot announces that she has accepted another, more mature role in the play and recommended Louise for the lead. Louise gets the part and is a great success on opening night, receiving a standing ovation. On the night of her triumph, she turns down party invitations, including one from Andre, to celebrate with her friend from the factory.'
'drama','An American diplomat''s son, Steven Early, having been educated in England, comes to West Point and enrolls, nicknamed "The Duke" by the others because of his background and bearing. Steve becomes a scholar and athlete, excelling in ice hockey. His roommates and friends are cadets Sonny Drew and Jack West, and he develops a romantic interest in Ann Porter, angering another cadet who loves her. When word reaches him that Jack''s mother is having trouble with the business and needs help, Steve sneaks off campus after Taps to wire money to her, so that Jack will not have to give up West Point, making her promise not to tell who sent it but to tell Jack that all is well. Caught upon his return, Steve lies as to where he went so that his friend will not find out about the money. The lie is in violation of the Honor Code and results in his being shunned by all other cadets for the next year, given the silent treatment. Before a big hockey game against a team of cadets from Canada, a serious accident befalls Sonny that leaves him unable to play, with possible permanent damage. Steve wears his friend''s jersey and helps West Point win the game, but has made up his mind to submit his resignation as soon as the game ends. But then, the others learn from Jack''s mother what Steve did for her and Jack, feeling very guilty, they all welcome him back among them.'
'romantic comedy','Bruce Keene works in the advertising department of Beyers and Company, which produces cereal, among other things. His heavy drinking conflicts with his work output. He and his fiancé, Penny Wilton, who also works in the advertising department, believe that a boost in the sales of Beyers'' cereal can come about if Keene draws a series of pictograms to be printed on the cereal boxes over a 30-week period. Customers who solve all 30 pictograms will be eligible to compete for a $100,000 prize. Willy Beyers, the company president, agrees to the concept, and the contest is launched. The contest is very successful, but Keene tires of creating a new pictogram in the waning weeks of the contest. He resumes his heavy drinking in bars. Wilton fears for her fiancé''s future, hires a small-time hood, Softy Blane, to feign Keene''s kidnaping so that while in the countryside he will finish the series of pictograms. Blane works for Steve Devers, a gangster who has taken an interest in manipulating the contest in order to win the $100,000. Blane doublecrosses Wilton, and really kidnaps Keene, taking him to Devers'' hideout. Keene works in captivity to expose his kidnappers by drawing pictograms that tell of his situation that are sent to Beyers. Wilton understands the clues, and uses them to puzzle out where Keene is being held. She leads the police to the hideout, and after a shootout, Keene is rescued. Reunited with his fiancé, he promises to reform his drinking ways and marries Wilton.'
'comedy','Joel and Garda Sloane run a rare book business in New York City. To supplement their meager income, Joel recovers stolen books. Insurance man Steve Langner drops off a check for his latest success. The couple also tries to help Ned Morgan, recently released from prison, find a job; they do not believe he was guilty of the theft of books from dealer Otto Brockler. Ned is in love with Brockler''s daughter Leah. Eli Bannerman barges into Otto''s office, despite the best efforts of secretary Julia Thorne. Otto is not pleased to see his business associate. He warns Eli that Joel is snooping around, but reluctantly agrees to take another shipment of fake first editions created by Sid Wheeler for $5000. Eli tells Sid that Otto only paid $2000. Incensed, Sid insists on going to see Otto to complain. That night, Otto is struck with a bust sitting on his desk and killed. Ned is the main suspect, especially since he was seen entering the office around the time of the murder. When Sid suggests that Eli might have killed Otto, Eli slugs him. Sid produces a gun, ends their partnership and takes Eli''s wallet, full of cash. Joel begins seeing Julia, pretending to be attracted to her in order to try to obtain information. Julia eventually tells him about a secret compartment in the office which holds the books Ned supposedly stole, but Ned is arrested before Joel can notify the police. Meanwhile, Eli convinces Sid that Joel is after him, sure that he is the murderer. Sid shoots at Joel on the sidewalk, but Joel is only hit in the buttocks. Later, Eli kills Sid and takes back his money. Then he hires Danny Scolado and Paul Terison to murder Joel. The two knock Joel out, but do not kill him right away; instead, they tie him up and stash him at a hideout. Having seen how concerned Eli was, Danny talks him into paying more money. In the meantime, Joel frees himself and knocks Paul out. When Danny and Eli return, they spot Garda following them and take her prisoner. Joel is forced to give up his gun, but Garda manages to disconnect the lamp. In the confusion, Eli gets away, while the police arrive and take Danny and Paul into custody. Joel then goes to confront Julia. He has figured out that she killed her boss. Eli shows up with a pistol, but Joel manages to wrestle it away from him and hands him and Julia over to the police.'
'comedy, musical','Film star Kay Winters (Carole Lombard) is traveling through Paris under a wig and the pseudonym of Kay Summers with her maid and companion Myrtle (Marie Wilson). She meets Rene (Fernand Gravet), a French marquis who has lost all his money and has pawned all his material possessions to live, something Paris society does not know. He sees her on the street and offers to give her a tour of the real Paris. Kay, who already had plans to attend dinner with Lady Paula Malverton (Isabel Jeans), tries to brush him off, only to become charmed by the persistent and impetuous Rene. Once finished with the tour, they have dinner, and unexpectedly run into Lady Malverton and her party. Lady Malverton calls Rene over to her table. When he returns, he discovers that Kay has left. However, she left a note asking him to lunch with her the following day. Kay returns to her hotel, to see Phillip Chester (Ralph Bellamy) waiting for her, the man who is in love with her. The next day, Kay is waiting by the fountain and Rene discovers that he has overslept. His friend, Dewey Gilson (Allen Jenkins), has taken too long getting Rene''s suit from the pawn shop. Rene waits, helplessly, as Kay prepares to leave. However, he runs down and obtains two carpets from a salesman, wrapping them around himself as a form of wealthy robe. He alerts Kay that he will be ready to have lunch in just a while, but two women, who believe that he is selling the carpets, demand to buy them. In an argument about who can buy the carpets between the women and Kay, the carpets are pulled from Rene and he runs away in his underwear. Later, Rene discovers that Kay is actually a movie star. Before he can contact her, however, she leaves for London. Rene follows her. He comes to her house at a party in which Kay has ordered her guests to appear in animal masks. Upon seeing Rene, she invites him to dinner, where Lady Malverton tells him to demonstrate his skills as a chef. After tasting the food that Rene prepares, Kay, as a joke, offers him a job as her cook. Rene, delighted, accepts without Kay knowing. Meanwhile, Phillip begs Kay to marry him, but she again postpones her answer. Lady Malverton finds Rene in the kitchen, where he tells her that he has taken the job of being Kay''s chef. Lady Malverton spreads the gossip. The following morning, Kay is delivered breakfast by Rene and begs him to leave. Rene tells her he has no such intention and answers the phone several times and tells everyone he is Kay''s chef. Lady Malverton arrives with a swarm of gossips and demands to know the truth. Kay tells them that she has hired him as a chef. Nonetheless, the tabloids are already running reports that Rene is Kay''s "love chef". Kay, undaunted, accepts Phillip''s proposal of marriage and orders an engagement dinner. Rene does his best to spoil the dinner and succeeds, with Phillip walking out of the house after a quarrel with Kay. Rene finally gets Kay to admit she loves him, but she tells him that she will not marry him, as the difference in social status between them will earn her the derision of everyone she knows. Rene tells her that he is a French marquis and leaves, angered by her silly fears. Kay follows him into an opera house where they kiss before an unexpected audience.'
'drama, musical','The Lemp sisters, Emma (Gale Page), Thea (Lola Lane), Kay (Rosemary Lane), and Ann (Priscilla Lane) are prodigies in a musical family headed by their father, Adam (Claude Rains). The Lemps also run a boarding house, and among the tenants is Felix Deitz (Jeffrey Lynn), a young composer whom the four daughters want to attract. Emma, the oldest daughter, is the object of affection of a neighbor, Ernest (Dick Foran), but she rebuffs his attentions. Thea, a pianist and the second eldest, is courted by wealthy Ben Crowley (Frank McHugh), another neighbor, but she is not sure she loves him. Kay, the third daughter, is a talented singer and has a chance at a music school scholarship but doesn''t want to leave home. The youngest daughter is Ann, a violinist. Mickey (John Garfield), an orchestral arranger and friend of Felix, falls for Ann, but Felix also has had his eyes on her and proposes marriage. An hour before Ann and Felix are to marry, Mickey tells Ann that Emma is in love with Felix. Ann then observes Emma''s distress after parting from Felix for the ceremony, and decides to step out of their way. She leaves and sends a telegram the wedding participants get, telling them she has eloped with Mickey. Ernest is prominent in calming people. Four months later, Ann and Mickey are living a hard life in New York, professing love for each other but penniless and unhappy. Mickey is invited to form a band and go to South America with some fellow-musicians, but cannot afford passage, and Ann does not want to go. The family meets at the Lemps'' house for Christmas, except Kay, who is singing on the radio that night. Emma has not gotten together with Felix, but is now engaged to Ernest; she tells Ann that she had thought she was in love with Felix and would have kept on thinking so and spoiled her life if Ann had married him, but she was awakened to Ernest''s qualities when he took charge at the abortive wedding. Felix is alone and unhappy, though he has a good conducting job awaiting him in Seattle. Mickey observes all this, and feels like an outsider and a failure. When he and Ben go to see Felix off at the train station in a snowstorm, he drives Ben''s car and drops Ben off for an errand; as the train pulls out, Felix presses some money on him and tells him to use it for Ann, and Mickey, realizing that Felix and Ann really belong together, speeds through the snow until he crashes the car. The family comes to the hospital, and he dies with Ann at his bedside. A while later, all four daughters are home making music with their loved ones when Felix returns, and he and Ann renew their love.'
'comedy, romance','Reporter Jean Christy (Rosalind Russell) works for a newspaper in danger of being thrown away by its young owner, Pat Buckley (Patric Knowles), after Buckley has a falling-out with the editor-in-chief, Robert Lansford (Errol Flynn). Meanwhile, Lansford hopes to gain tycoon John Dillingwell''s (Walter Connolly) business for his public relations firm, and uses his position at Buckley''s paper to drum up good press for Dillingwell. In the process, he discovers that Dillingwell''s granddaughter Lorri (Olivia de Havilland) is Buckley''s fiancée. Lansford decides to try to charm Lorri while Christy makes a play for Buckley.'
'comedy, mystery','A Hollywood actor is accused of murder and attempts to scheme his way out of it.'
'drama','Innocent young Connie Heath (Jane Bryan) is persuaded to borrow a party dress from her friend, "fast girl" Hilda Engstrom (Sheila Bromley), who has actually misappropriated it from the dry cleaner where she works. After the real owner of the dress, witchy Gloria Adams (Susan Hayward), spots Connie out in the dress (which is subsequently torn in a car door), Connie is falsely accused of theft and prosecuted as Hilda flees town and leaves her to take the blame. Though Gloria withdraws her charge, the insurance company continues to persecute poor Connie, resulting in a charge of grand larceny. Championing her cause is crusading attorney Neil Dillon (Ronald Reagan)- coincidentally, also Connie''s date on the evening in question- who gets Connie off with probation. Connie leaves town after being mistreated by her unsympathetic father (Sig Ruman) and gets a job in order to pay for the damaged dress. One day she spots Hilda waiting in a parked car on the street and begins to argue with her in the car when Hilda''s boyfriend emerges from a bank he has just robbed, fleeing the scene with Connie in tow. She is arrested and convicted while refusing to give her real name or full story for fear of humiliating her family. Eventually the truth begins to emerge, and Connie is given probation, returns home, and becomes engaged to Dillon. When Hilda is given probation, she returns to town as well, to make even more trouble for Connie, especially after her boyfriend escapes prison.[2]'
'comedy','A milquetoast bank clerk finds himself stuck a speeding trailer towed by gangsters after a bank robbery goes awry. Unfortunately for him, the police and even his own domineering wife, believe that he is the robber and so head off in hot pursuit precipitated by a fast-paced merry chase.'
'drama','A young black woman arrives at the home of a black widow, Mrs. Saunders, and begs her to look after her light-skinned baby, whom she cannot afford to feed. At first she says this is temporary while she looks for work, but as she leaves she declares she will never be back. Mrs. Saunders pledges to raise the "poor little darling" as her own, alongside her own son Jimmie. She names her Naomi. Nine years later, schoolgirl Naomi is thought by the other black children to be aloof; they accuse the light-complexioned child of not wanting to be black. This looks true the day Naomi disappears on her way to school and Jimmie tells his mother that Naomi deliberately avoided the black school she was supposed to attend and instead went to attend a white school. Naomi denies Jimmie''s accusation, saying he''s lying because he hates girls. When Mrs. Cushinberry threatens to punish her for being insolent and mean, Naomi furiously explodes that she hates her and the other children and that she only came to the school because her mother sent her there. She spits in the teacher''s face which results in Mrs. Cushinberry spanking her. That evening, Mrs. Cushinberry visits Mrs. Saunders, but when she realizes that Naomi didn''t tell her mother what happened that afternoon, she decides to keep silent. But Naomi has been eavesdropping, and when the teacher leaves she starts to tell her mother that the teacher was the one at fault. Then Jimmie reveals the truth: Naomi was spanked at school for being unruly and then spitting in the teacher''s face. Mrs. Saunders spanks Naomi herself. Later, Naomi starts a rumor that Mrs. Cushinberry is having an affair with a married professor; soon a riot erupts at school and a crowd of angry parents marches to the school superintendent''s house to demand that he fire both teachers. When Jimmie tells Mrs. Saunders about the riot, she rushes to the superintendent''s office to dispel the rumor Naomi started. Because of this, Naomi is soon sent to a convent. About 12 years later, Jimmie has earned $6700 as a Pullman porter and he is approached by Ontrue Cowper, who tries to interest him in investing in the numbers racket. Jimmie rejects this offer, investing in a farm instead. After proposing to his sweetheart Eva, Jimmie invites his mother to live on his new farm. Naomi returns to town, reformed by her life at the convent, and apologizes to her mother for having been a bad child. When Jimmie and Naomi are reunited, the scene implies Naomi''s romantic attachment towards him. Mrs. Saunders arranges to have Jimmie take Naomi to see the city. Although things go well, Eva''s Aunt Carrie doesn''t trust Naomi''s unnatural interest in Jimmie and believes that she should be watched. Aunt Carrie’s suspicions prove to be well-founded as Naomi soon confesses her love for her adoptive brother. When Jimmie, Eva, and Naomi return to the country, Jimmie introduces Naomi to his friend, Clyde Wade, who immediately falls in love with her. Clyde is a dark-skinned African American with a country accent. Naomi finds him repulsive and confesses to Jimmie that she has always wanted him to marry her. Realizing that Eva would be crushed by the loss of Jimmie, Naomi consents to marry Clyde. One year later, Naomi tells her mother that she is leaving Clyde and her newborn son and is also “leaving the Negro race.” A few years after that, Naomi comes back to the farm one night and silently creeps up to the window, through which she sees a happy family scene that will never include her. After getting one last look at her family, Naomi drowns herself in the river.'
'comedy, musical','Maurice Giraud (Hugh Herbert) is sent to New York to arrange for the Academy Ballet of America to come to Paris to compete for cash prizes at an international dance festival, but a cabbie takes him by mistake to the Club Ballé, a nightclub about to go under. The desperate owners of the club, Terry Moore (Rudy Vallee) and Duke Dennis (Allen Jenkins), know that there''s been an error, but see the invitation as a way out of their financial problems. To get some ballet into their nightclub act, they hire ballet teacher Luis Leoni (Fritz Feld) and his star (and only) pupil Kay Morrow (Rosemary Lane) to teach their girls ballet on the boat crossing the Atlantic. Terry finds Kay very attractive, but things are complicated when his ex-wife, Mona (Gloria Dickson), invites herself along, rooming with Kay. Meanwhile, the head of the real ballet company, Padrinsky (Curt Bois), finds out what''s happened and cables Giraud aboard ship, then heads to Paris with his patron, a ballet-loving gangster named Mike Coogan (Edward Brophy), who intends to rub out Terry and Duke. Giraud is upset about being hoaxed, but is mollified when a "talking dog" (a ventriloquist hired by Terry and Duke) convinces him that Padrinsky is the liar. After they arrive in Paris, a representative of the exposition, Pierre Le Brec (Melville Cooper), wants to watch the group''s rehearsals, and Duke tells his new friend Coogan, the gangster, that Le Brec is causing him trouble. Coogan goes to "take care" of the problem, but by mistake knocks out Leoni instead of Le Brec. Padrinsky shows up and arranges for the imposters to be deported on the day of the contest, but Mona manages to change the order so that Coogan and Padrinsky are shipped out instead, which allows the company to perform and win the grand prize.[1][2]'
'western, romance','A new gold strike in California ten years after the American Civil War triggers a bitter feud between farmers and miners using hydraulic mining methods that flood the farmlands.'
'comedy','Molly and Pat Malloy, a married couple of famed vaudeville performers on the verge of retirement, arrive in a small Connecticut town to play a show, When they''re insulted by the clerk of the shabby local hotel, the Malloys buy the hotel just for the satisfaction of firing him. But this aggravates the local realtor who''s had his eye on the property. For revenge, the realtor places an ad in Variety that the Malloys are providing free room and board for any of their eccentric old vaudeville friends who might show up. Many do.'
'drama, musical','The highly fictionalised story sees ''Schani'' dismissed from his job in a bank. He puts together a group of unemployed musicians who wangle a performance at Dommayer''s cafe. The audience is minimal, but when two opera singers, Carla Donner (Miliza Korjus) and Fritz Schiller (George Houston), visit whilst their carriage is being repaired, the music attracts a wider audience. Strauss is caught up in a student protest; he and Carla Donner avoid arrest and escape to the Vienna Woods, where he is inspired to create the waltz ''Tales from the Vienna Woods''. Carla asks Strauss for some music to sing at an aristocratic soiree and this leads to the composer receiving a publishing contract. He''s on his way, and he can now marry Poldi Vogelhuber, his sweetheart. But the closeness of Strauss and Carla Donner during rehearsals of operettas, atrracts comment, not least from Count Hohenfried, Donner''s admirer. Poldi remains loyal to Strauss and the marriage is a long one. He is received by the Kaiser Franz Joseph I of Austria (whom he unknowingly insulted in the aftermath of the student protests) and the two stand before cheering crowds on the balcony of Schönbrunn.'
'comedy, musical','A bandleader, Duke Sargent, and his manager Jimmy Hall are flying from New York to Paris when they must make a forced landing in Norway. A misunderstanding results in local girl Trudy Ericksen being romantically committed to Duke, but he has Flo Kelly waiting for him back in New York and slips away. Trudy follows him to New York, but ends up in Central Park on a skating date with Jimmy and soon is signed up as the star of a big-city ice revue.'
'comedy, romance','New York oil magnate Ben Richards (Charles Winninger) and his family are preparing to leave for Newport for their summer vacation. His spoiled willful daughter Margaret (Olivia de Havilland) refuses to go and storms out of the house, borrowing a car belonging to her father''s valet. On the road she notices the car is low on gas and stops at an auto court gas station. The attendant, Bill Davis (Dick Powell), fills up the tank and requests the $3.50 payment. With no money on her, Margaret tries to charge the amount to her father''s account, but Bill refuses, not knowing who she is. Instead, he offers to let her work off her debt by making the beds and cleaning the rooms at the auto court motel. Outraged by this suggestion, Margaret attempts to drive off, but backs into a truck preventing her from leaving. When a police officer arrives, Margaret is forced to comply with Bill''s offer, and she spends the next few hours making beds and cleaning rooms. Margaret returns home vowing revenge on Bill for his treatment of her. At first she asks her father—who is on the board of the oil company that owns the station—to have Bill fired. After listening to her story, however, her father agrees with the way Bill handled the issue and tells her she''ll have to find her own way of getting her revenge. The next day, Margaret returns to the auto court gas station and apologizes to Bill, pretending to have forgiven him. Attracted to the beautiful heiress, who now pretends to be her family''s maid "Maggie", Bill asks her on a date and she accepts. That night, Bill sneaks them into a banquet for a free dinner, then takes her up to the Empire State Building, where he tells her about his dream of building a string of auto courts across the country. Margaret tells him she thinks it''s a great idea and sends him to her father to get financing for his plan—even providing him her father''s old nickname "Spouter" so the secretaries will think he is one of Ben''s old friends. Margaret knows that when her father sees that Bill used the nickname to pretend he was an old friend, he will make his life miserable. As Margaret planned, Bill is given the runaround by Ben and his business associate Atwater—neither of whom know that Margaret is behind the whole thing. When Ben discovers that his daughter planned the revenge pretending to be his maid, he invites Bill over to dinner for some fun at their expense. Maggie turns the tables by inducing the real maid to masquerade as Ben''s daughter. Still believing that Ben wants to help him, Bill sneaks into a party given by Atwater where he finally discovers that Margaret, Ben, and Atwater have been making a fool of him. After telling them all off, Bill storms out of the party, not knowing that Margaret has fallen in love with him. Realizing that Bill''s national auto court plan has great potential, Ben and Atwater fight over who will finance the project. They converge on the high-rise construction site where Bill is now working and agree to be partners and pay Bill a substantial fee to serve as their architect. Bill accepts the offer. Sometime later, Margaret visits Bill at one of the newly built auto courts seeking forgiveness for what she''s done. Ben soon arrives with a justice of the peace who is prepared to marry them. After Ben''s wife arrives trying to prevent the wedding, Bill finally agrees to marry Margaret.'
'romantic comedy','Bored New York office girl Teddy goes to a vacation camp in the Catskill Mountains called Camp Kare Free, for rest and to get away from the noisy, busy, city life and avoid advances from Emil. She meets and at first does not like waiter Chick. She also meets friend Fay, her roommate Miriam, and Buzzy. Miriam has eyes for Buzzy, who seems to have eyes for everyone. Within her two-week stay, Teddy and Chick fall in love and spend every day together. One night Teddy becomes angry with Chick and leaves him to go to a party where she meets up with Buzzy. A storm rolls in and Buzzy invites her to his cabin, which he rents by himself. Initially refusing and wanting to be with friends, Teddy sees Chick at the party and asks Buzzy to go to his cabin. At the cabin she tells Buzzy she isn''t interested but loves to play backgammon. Chick rushes in to save Teddy but becomes embarrassed when he sees the innocent board game. He returns to the party and waits there to talk with Teddy when she returns home. Teddy accidentally falls asleep at Buzzy''s cabin and stays overnight. While trying to sneak out the next morning Teddy is spotted leaving by Miriam. Emil shows up to drive Teddy back to the city and the two sit down to eat, with Chick as their waiter. All three of them overhear Miriam yelling at Buzzy for having Teddy stay overnight. Chick goes on a punching spree and chases after Teddy out of the restaurant. The two reconcile and plan their married life.'
'romantic comedy','Lambert T. Hunkins (Frank McHugh) works at a linoleum company. When his boss, Oxnard O. Parsons (Ferris Taylor), gives him a raise from $30 a month to $40, his girlfriend Violet''s (Jane Wyman) mother, Mrs. Coney (Cora Witherspoon), decides that it is time for the two to get married. Lambert is too meek to object. They go to an auction to buy some furniture, but when he sees a statue that resembles socialite Iris Mabby (Diana Lewis), the woman he adores from afar, he buys it, over the Coneys'' objections. As Lambert is leaving, Iris''s father, Senator Mabby (Berton Churchill), tries to buy the statue from him, but Lambert refuses to sell at any price. Their bargaining attracts the attention of a street reporter (John Ridgely), and the story of the humble office worker turning down a large sum of money gets into the media. The senator rushes off before he can be recognized. It turns out that Senator Mabby is mounting a public campaign against nudity, and the artwork (for which his daughter posed) would be terribly embarrassing to him. Iris does not care. Iris visits Lambert, curious about the buyer. She finds he is like no other man she has ever met, and encourages him to stand firm against her father. Julia Becker, the sculptor, also pays a visit. Despite his weak protests, she insists she will send him two companion statues (also based on Iris). Meanwhile, crook Hymie Atlas (Raymond Hatton) decides the statue must be worth a lot of money. He and his two thugs, Slug (William Haade) and Dimples (Tom Kennedy), barge into Lambert''s apartment to steal it. When Senator Mabby and Iris show up to make another offer, the three gangsters hide in the next room. With a gun secretly pointed at him, Lambert is forced to insist on a price of $150,000. The senator refuses, and Iris is disillusioned. After the Mabbys leave, Hymie assigns Dimples to keep an eye on Lambert. The next day, Lambert receives a telegram, bearing an Iowa museum''s bid of $5000. Lambert manages to knock Dimples out and steal a linoleum truck to transport the artwork to the museum''s representatives. However, Hymie and Slug return before he can load it. They tie him up and drive to the buyers, unaware that Lambert has outsmarted them (what they think is the covered statue is actually an unconscious Dimples). When Parsons brings the police, looking for his truck, Lambert leads them to the thieves. The crooks are captured, and an impressed Parsons gives Lambert his job back. When Violet and her mother also show up, an emboldened Lambert tells them he is not going to marry Violet. With the $5000 check in hand, he proposes to Iris instead; she cannot say no.'
'adventure, music','Two pilots (Ray Milland, Lynne Overman) on a rescue mission meet a white jungle girl (Dorothy Lamour) in the South Seas.'
'comedy','Former star quarterback Rusty Stevens believes he''s being hired to be prosperous Clayton University''s new football coach, but finds it''s actually rundown State College in the same town that is giving him that job. Gov. Gabby Harrigan, who is running for the U.S. Senate, has slashed State''s budget so much that the school only owns one football. Rusty leads a student protest at the state capitol that ends up in a brawl. The governor''s opponent in the Senate campaign, Major Breckenridge, capitalizes politically on Harrigan''s unpopularity at the college. Harrigan''s bright secretary Marjorie Blake persuades the governor to retaliate by raising funds for State and proposing to build it a 100,000-seat stadium (to be named after him). She also recruits new players for State including a couple of tough wrestlers, promising them government jobs and $500 a game. State begins winning game after game. As a publicity stunt, State even ends up with college football''s first woman, co-ed Lizzie Olsen becoming the team''s kicker. Harrigan publicly dares mighty Clayton to a game, challenging his adversary by vowing to quit the Senate race if State loses the game. Breckenridge has no choice but to accept. All''s well until Rusty reveals the unethical payment to players. A depleted State squad is overmatched during the game, but with the score 7-6 in Clayton''s favor, on the last play of the game Lizzie snatches a batted-down pass in mid-air and crosses the goal line for a game-winning touchdown for State.'
'comedy, romance','Travel agency clerk Tommy Bradford (Dennis O''Keefe) delivers tickets to wealthy J. Westley Piermont (George Barbier) at the lavish wedding of his daughter. Piermont introduces him to model June Evans (Maureen O''Sullivan), but neglects to mention neither one is a guest. June is there to help the daughter with her wedding dress. Both pretend to be rich. Tommy gives June his telephone number, but neither expects anything to come of their momentary attraction to each other. That night, after she tells her family about her adventure, her obnoxious, younger, musician brother Chick (Mickey Rooney) phones Tommy, pretending to be June''s servant, and forces his sister to continue the charade. Tommy is pressured to maintain the masquerade as well by his roommate Al (Edward Brophy), an insurance salesman who dreams of making contacts in New York high society. They begin seeing each other. Their first date is at the Westminster Dog Show, where they run into Piermont again. He has two dogs entered in the competition. Piermont insists his Pomeranian will win, but Tommy champions his other entry, a St. Bernard. Sure of himself, the millionaire promises to give the St. Bernard to Tommy if it wins. It does, and he does. With no place to keep it, Tommy makes a present of it to June. Their second date is at a movie theater where another of June''s brothers (Phillip Terry) works. By this point, June''s family is anxious to meet her boyfriend. Her aunt Lucy (Jessie Ralph) is the housekeeper for a wealthy family, so while her employers are away, she borrows their home to host a dinner. Afterward, Tommy tries to confess to June, but she misunderstands and thinks he has found her out instead. Outraged by what she thinks are insults aimed at her family, she breaks up with him. Fortunately, Aunt Lucy recognizes Tommy and sets her niece straight. June shows up at Tommy''s workplace and gives him a hard time, pretending to be a potential customer. When she leaves, Tommy sees her get into a delivery van with her employer''s name on it. Realizing the truth, he goes to her workplace and returns the favor, forcing her to model dress after dress. In the end though, they decide to restart their relationship afresh.'
'comedy, drama','Johnny Case (Cary Grant), a self-made man who has worked all of his life, is about to marry Julia Seton (Doris Nolan), whom he met while on holiday in Lake Placid, New York. He knows very little about his bride-to-be, and is flabbergasted to learn that she is from an extremely wealthy family, the daughter of banker Edward Seton (Henry Kolker). Case then meets Julia''s vivacious sister, Linda (Katharine Hepburn), to whom he confides his plan to take a long holiday from work to find the meaning of life. He then meets the sisters'' alcoholic brother, Ned (Lew Ayres), whose spirit has been broken by subservience to their father. At first Julia''s father is stunned when she tells him about her plan to marry Johnny, but he is appeased after meeting Johnny and looking into his work history. Julia makes plans for an elaborate New Year''s Eve engagement party, even though she promised Linda that Linda could throw a smaller and more personal affair for Johnny and herself, one that would include only close friends. On the night of the party, and upset that she did not get to throw the engagement party she was promised, Linda refuses to come down from her favorite room in the house. When Julia sends Johnny to get her he finds her and Ned in the "playroom" – the one truly human room in the enormous, cold, over-built Park Avenue mansion – with Johnny''s off-beat friends, Professor Nick Potter and his wife Susan (Edward Everett Horton and Jean Dixon), who had gotten lost and serendipitously ended up there. The group spends a joyful time together, interrupted – just as Johnny and Linda display a tumbling trick together – by Julia and her father. Mr. Seton offers Johnny a job at his bank, and Johnny reveals his plans for a holiday from work. Julia is appalled, as is her domineering father, and, after seeing in the New Year with Linda, and the announcement of the engagement to the assembled guests, Johnny leaves the mansion in a dark mood without saying goodbye to the family, although wishing the kitchen staff a Happy New Year as he leaves. Linda tells her brother that she has fallen in love with Johnny, but because of her love for her sister she will keep her feelings to herself. Hoping to patch things up between Johnny and Julia, Linda goes to see the Potters and finds them packing their trunks for a voyage to Europe. She learns from them that Johnny is planning to go as well, and that he has asked Julia to go with them. A telegram arrives, informing them that Julia has turned him down. Linda returns home, hoping to change her sister''s mind, but they argue instead. Julia is certain that Johnny will give up his plans and return to her. Just then Johnny arrives with a compromise: he will work at the bank for two years but will quit then if he is unhappy. Mr. Seton accepts this, and Julia and he begin planning the couple''s honeymoon in minute detail, mixing together stops at the homes of relatives with business-related matters. This makes Johnny realize that it just won''t work, that marrying Julia on these terms will be more of an encumbrance on his freedom than he can abide, and he leaves to meet the Potters to sail to Europe. Linda sees from Julia''s reaction that she is relieved by Johnny''s decision, and makes Julia admit that she does not really love him after all. With the way now clear, and inspired by Johnny, Linda renounces her father''s stifling influence and declares her independence, rushing off to meet Johnny and the Potters to go on holiday. Meanwhile, the Potters arrive at the ship, sad that Johnny went to take the job at the bank. He surprises them and explains that he couldn''t go through with it, and they cheerfully celebrate together. Johnny is doing a back flip in the ship''s hallway when Linda arrives. He sees her while in mid-handspring and falls on his stomach rather than finishing. When she greets the three of them Johnny takes her hand, pulls her down to the floor, and they kiss.'
'drama, crime','New York City law professor John Lindsay (Robinson) is asked by Eugene Ferguson (Kruger), a member of the governor''s Civic Committee, to become a special prosecutor to fight racketeers and corruption in the city, but unknown to Lindsay, Ferguson is in association with the racketeers.[1]'
'comedy, drama','In the south of France, wealthy American businessman Tony Newlander is fed up with life. It seems everyone is friendly with him only because of his money or influence, including his ex-wife Cecilia and his valet. While on his yacht, he spots Louie, a tramp drowning in the water. Unable to attract the crew''s attention over the sound of the ship''s whistle, Tony jumps in to rescue him. The yacht sails away, so Tony drags a strangely uncooperative Louie ashore. It turns out that Louie was trying to commit suicide. However, since he has been saved, he desists from trying again. Louie takes him to his shack on the beach. The next morning, the tramp discovers that Tony has taken Louie''s clothes and left his tuxedo and money behind in exchange. Louie dresses up in his new finery and goes to a cafe for breakfast. The proprietor thinks he stole the money he flashes. Louie insists that an eccentric millionaire, dressed like a tramp, gave him a million francs and will do the same to anyone who is kind to him in his disguise. A reporter publishes his story, and soon everyone is being extra generous to anybody who looks down on his luck. Meanwhile, Tony encounters a mischievous chimpanzee named Darwin. Jean Hofmann, a performer at the Circus Primerose, enlists Tony to capture Darwin. The chimp indulges in a favorite pastime, setting off a fire alarm. Tony is blamed for the rash of phony alarms, taken into custody and sentenced to ten days in jail. However, after the judge reads the newspaper article, he lets Tony go. Tony flips a borrowed coin, which sends him to the circus. Jean gets Anatole Primerose, the proprietor, to give him a job as a relief night watchman. Meanwhile, tramps flood the region to take advantage of the situation. Soon there are complaints, and the newspaper editor is pressured to either produce the millionaire or retract the story. He in turn threatens to accuse Louie of murdering the millionaire and stealing his money and gives him one last chance to find the man. The police round up all the tramps in town for Louie to look over. Tony and Jean start falling in love, but to stop Max, the jealous son of the proprietor, from getting Tony fired, Jean lies (so she thinks) and tells him she is being friendly to Tony only because he is the millionaire. Unfortunately, Tony overhears her. To save himself from a possible charge of murder, Louie identifies a tramp at random as the millionaire: Kopelpeck. Disillusioned, Tony decides to end the charade and expose the imposter, but no one will believe him. In fact, he is thrown in jail for making a nuisance of himself. Jean bails him out. Then Tony discovers that Jean does not believe he is the millionaire. His identity is finally confirmed by the captain of his yacht and others. The public surrounds the police station, demanding to be compensated for their misguided efforts. To prevent a riot, Tony agrees to donate half a million to the poor and the same amount to the city, but only if Jean will marry him. She holds out for a while, but then gives in.'
'drama, adventure','King Louis XI of France (Basil Rathbone) is in desperate straits. He is besieged in Paris by the Burgundians and suspects that there is a traitor in his court. He goes in disguise to a tavern to see who accepts a message from the enemy. While there, he is amused by the antics of poet François Villon (Ronald Colman), who has stolen food from the royal storehouse. The rascal criticizes the king and brags about how much better he would do if he were in Louis'' place. The traitor is revealed to be Grand Constable D''Aussigny (John Miljan), but before he can be arrested, the turncoat is killed in a brawl by Villon. As a jest, Louis rewards Villon by making him the new Constable, though the king secretly intends to have him executed after a week. His low-born origin kept a secret, Villon falls in love with lady-in-waiting Katherine DeVaucelles (Frances Dee) and she with him. Then Louis informs Villon about his grim fate. Villon escapes, but when the Burgundians break down the city gates, he rallies the common people to rout them and lift the siege. Having had to put up with Villon''s impudence and wanting less aggravation in his life, Louis decides to permanently exile him from Paris. Villon leaves on foot, with Katherine following at a discreet distance.'
'western','Hoppy (William Boyd) and his pals must journey to Mexico after receiving a summons. Upon arrival, they realize that it was fake and that a good friend has been mysteriously murdered. They solve the puzzle with the assistance of the killer''s feisty sister and a band of helpful caballeros.[3]'
'drama, crime','Julie Hayes (Gloria Stuart) is betrothed to Michael Fraser (Michael Whalen), assistant district attorney. Peter Vincent (Robert Kellard) is falsely convicted of murder of his father Stephen Vincent and is condemned to death, Julie postpones her wedding to prove him innocent. She enlists the help of Johnny Doyle (Paul Kelly a former gangster and eventually succeeds in saving the innocent man''s life.[1]'
'drama','In 1852 New Orleans, spoiled, strong-willed belle Julie Marsden (Bette Davis) is engaged to banker Preston "Pres" Dillard (Fonda). In retaliation for Pres refusing to drop his work and accompany her while she shops for a dress, she orders a brazen red one for the Olympus Ball, the most important ball of the year, though an unmarried woman is expected to wear a white dress. All of Julie''s friends are shocked, but no one can convince her to give up her whim. At the Olympus ball, Pres and Julie''s entrance is met with shock and disdain by all present. She finally realizes the magnitude of her social blunder and begs Pres to take her away, but instead he forces her to dance with him. All of the other dancers leave the floor. When the orchestra stops playing at the instruction of one of the ball''s sponsors, Pres orders the conductor to continue. Pres and Julie finish the dance. Afterwards, Pres takes his leave of Julie, implicitly breaking their engagement. In a final bit of spite, Julie slaps him in the face. Aunt Belle Massey (Fay Bainter) urges her to go after Pres and beg his forgiveness, but she refuses, confident that he will return to her. Instead, he goes north on business. Julie shuts herself up in her house and refuses to see visitors. A year later, Pres finally returns, to help Dr. Livingstone (Crisp) try to convince the city authorities to take measures against an outbreak of yellow fever. At a homecoming party planned for Pres at Halcyon Plantation, the family''s country estate, Julie wears a luminous white gown, and, before Pres can stop her, Julie humbles herself and begs for his forgiveness and a return of his love. Then Pres introduces her to his wife, Northerner Amy (Margaret Lindsay). Dismayed, Julie eggs on her admirer, skilled duellist Buck Cantrell (Brent), to quarrel with Pres, but the scheme goes awry. Pres''s inexperienced brother Ted (Richard Cromwell) is the one who is goaded into challenging Buck to a duel. In an unexpected twist, Ted shoots and kills Buck. Then something happens that overshadows everything else. As Dr. Livingstone had warned repeatedly, a deadly epidemic of yellow fever sweeps the city, as it had done numerous times before. Pres is stricken and, like all other victims, is to be quarantined on an island. Amy prepares to go along to care for him, risking her own life, but Julie tells her that she does not know how to deal with the slaves and Southerners on the island. She begs to go in her place, as an act of redemption. Amy agrees, but only after Julie admits that Pres no longer has any love for Julie.'
'comedy, musical','Margaret "Maggie" Garret is the star of a new musical show, Glamour, having come up the hard way, following the family tradition of stage performance. She now earns a large salary but is devastated to learn that she is deeply in debt. She has worked extremely hard to make the show a success, but spends huge sums on a palatial home, and supporting her parents Dennis and Minerva, her sister Salina (also her understudy) and Salina''s work-shy husband, Bert Pine. After the show one night, she forces her way through her adoring fans and is accosted by Dan Webster, who latches on to her and won''t be put off. Taking him as a "masher", she drives to the police station, but Dan charmingly talks his way out of the charge. When it happens again, Dan is forced to appear to court and demands that Maggie appear as a witness. The judge finds the charge proved and sentences Dan to six months in prison. Maggie, who is slowly taking a liking to Dan''s debonair manner, begs the Judge to commute the sentence to a suspended one. He agrees, but appoints Maggie the "probation officer", to whom Dan must report twice-weekly. Dan, now revealed as an easy-going pleasure-seeker from a rich banking family, claims to own an island in the South Pacific, bought with family money. He continues to pursue the hard-working Maggie, attempting to convince her to take time off and have fun - as he does. Eventually, they fall in love and marry. Dan wants to immediately board his boat and sail to his island, which he calls "Paradise", but Maggie has a show to do. She must make a choice. Maggie returns to the family home and confronts her sponging family. She tells her parents, who have spent a fortune on acquiring antiques, to go into the antiques business. She tells her sister that this is her big chance - tonight she will take the stage and (perhaps) make her name. Maggie and Dan sail off to Paradise.'
'comedy','Judge Hardy (Lewis Stone) has been appointed chairman of a special committee in Washington, DC. The Judge''s daughter Marian (Cecilia Parker) is intoxicated by Washington''s social life, while son Andy (Mickey Rooney) falls for a pretty daughter of a French diplomat. Thus, the judge is obliged to juggle his committee duties with his efforts to keep his children from making fools of themselves.[2]'
'drama, romance','During the Civil War, Thad Goodwin, Sr., (Charles Waldron) of Elmtree Farm, a local horse breeder resists Capt. John Dillon (Douglass Dumbrille) and a company of Union soldiers confiscating his prize horses. He is killed by Dillon and his youngest son Peter (Bobs Watson) cries at the soldiers riding away with the horses. 75 years later, in 1938, Peter (Walter Brennan) now a crotchety old man, still resides on Elmtree Farm and raises horses with his niece Sally (Loretta Young). Dillon''s grandson Jack (Richard Greene) and Sally meet, her not knowing that he was a Dillon. Sally''s father Thad Goodwin, Jr., dies when his speculation on cotton drops. The Goodwins are forced to auction off nearly all their horses and Jack offers his services to Sally, as a trainer of their last prize horse, "Bessie''s Boy", who is later injured. Sally eventually loses the farm, and Mr. Dillon makes good on his original bet with Thad Jr. and offers her any two-year-old on his farm. She picks "Blue Grass" instead of the favorite, "Postman", and Jack trains him for the Derby. She eventually learns of Jack''s real identity and fires him as trainer. During the race, Blue Grass runs neck and neck with the Dillon''s horse Postman, but Blue Grass wins thanks to Jack''s advice. Sally embraces Jack, but Peter collapses before the decoration ceremony and dies. At his funeral, Dillon eulogizes him and of the American life of the past, as "The Grand Old Man of the American Turf".'
'comedy','Radio singer Tony Martin''s rating are slipping, so he makes travel plans to the Southern United States to find new talent. The Ritz boys get wind of Tony''s pending trip. Marjorie Weaver and the Ritz Brothers make a trip to Kentucky. There they pose as hillbillies in order to be discovered.'
'adventure','In 1747, David Balfour''s evil uncle arranges for him to be kidnapped and sent to sea where he meets exiled Alan Breck. The two make their way back to Scotland and justice.'
'drama, action','Just as gangster Steve Murkil is escaping from Alcatraz prison, rival San Francisco radio operators Ray Grayson and Bob MacArthur find themselves assigned to a freighter run by Captain Glennan, headed out to sea. Among those on board are a new nurse, Dale Borden, and passengers including a young woman and her mother. The younger one is Murkil''s moll and the mother is Murkil himself in disguise, making a getaway, with several of his cronies also aboard ship. Ray and Bob both develop a romantic interest in Dale and both end up in confrontations with Murkil. A fight results in Ray being wounded, with Dale receiving radio instructions on how to perform an operation that he immediately needs. Murkil nearly makes his escape until he is shot by Glennan. On shore, Ray and Dale decide to get married, with Bob their best man.'
'drama','Bill Hayward''s years as a college athlete and singer are behind him, and while he struggles financially, his attorney wife Ann is prospering, promoted to junior partner in her law firm. While she''s in Washington, D.C., on business, Bill accompanies friends June and George to a New York City nightclub where they have been hired to entertain. He is persuaded to get on stage and sing himself, but resists the temptation to get into a romantic situation with June, a former girlfriend from their school days. June gets inebriated and a stumble results in her accidental death. Bill, however, is charged with her murder. Ann offers to defend him in court, but Bill can''t bear that thought. When the case goes badly against him, however, Ann volunteers information that results in Bill''s acquittal and their reconciliation.'
'western','A Judge Roy Bean figure dispenses justice in Arizona. He teams up with the Tonto Kid to fight the McQuinn gang.'
'comedy, musical','Betsy Brown is released from an orphanage into the care of Pop Shea, her parents'' friend who runs a boarding house for theatrical performers. Sarah Wendling, the curmudgeon owner and next-door neighbor of the building, detests "show people" and their noise, and demands Pop pay the $2,500 back rent he owes or move out immediately. Her nephew Roger is in love with Pop''s daughter Barbara and files suit against Sarah in order to gain control of the building and his inheritance, with which he plans to stage a show starring the hotel residents. Sarah questions the soundness of Roger''s investment in the show, and Betsy convinces the judge to see the production before he decides the case. With the assistance of her friends, the little girl presents a lavish musical revue in the courtroom that so impresses one of the observers he offers the troupe $2,500 a week to star in his International Follies. Having had a change of heart, Sarah insists the show is worth $5,000 and convinces the impresario to double his offer. Roger and Barbara then announce their intent to wed and adopt Betsy.'
'drama, crime','Johnny Boylan''s (Billy Halop) father was sentenced to death for a crime that he was never fully proven to have committed. He and his family move to a poorer section of the East Side in New York City. His sister, Kay (Helen Parrish) resorts to dancing in a burlesque theater after she is fired from her job. Her former fiance, Paul Wilson (Robert Wilcox), still cares for her and wants to help her, but she avoids him because of the shame she is feeling. Johnny tries to enlist his fellow newsboy friends to help prove his father''s innocence. They try to convince the judge, but are unsuccessful. In frustration, Johnny tosses a brick through the judge''s car window, which begins his life of crime. He enlists his friend "Pig" (Huntz Hall) to help him rob a drugstore. They are subsequently chased by the police and hide out. However, the cops find them and Pig begs Johnny to surrender. Eventually Pig leaves the store and is shot and killed by the police. Johnny is captured and sent to reform school.'
'comedy, crime','Young "Lord" Geoffrey Braemer (Freddie Bartholomew) is supposedly an English aristocrat. In fact, he is an orphan and willing accomplice to con artists Jim Hampstead (George Zucco) and Doris Clandon (Gale Sondergaard), who took him in when his parents died in a train wreck. He conveniently faints in a jewelry store, distracting the employees and allowing Jim to steal a valuable necklace. However, an astute insurance investigator catches him. He is sent to Russell-Cotes, a mercantile marine school, one of many vocational schools run by Dr. Barnardo''s home for orphaned boys, with the warning that if he does not behave himself, he will be transferred to a reformatory. The school is headed by Captain Briggs (Charles Coburn). Briggs assigns longtime "honor boy" Terry O''Mulvaney (Mickey Rooney) to take Geoff under his wing. Despite excelling in sea knowledge from his previous education, Geoff is not interested in fitting in; he only wants to return to London to be reunited with Doris and Jim, although he waits in vain for a letter from them. He antagonizes all of the other boys, with the exception of the irrepressibly cheerful Albert Baker (Terry Kilburn). When the boys are given liberty at a banquet in the town, Geoff uses the opportunity to run away. Terry tracks him down and, after a fight, takes him back to school. Unfortunately, it is very late, and Terry is caught sneaking into the dormitory. When he refuses to inform on Geoff to excuse his actions, he is stripped of his rank and, worse, loses his chance of getting one of five coveted jobs offered the boys on the luxury liner RMS Queen Mary. Geoff smugly refuses to reveal his part, angering the other boys, who "put the chill" on him, refusing to speak to him at all. The bleak isolation of not being spoken to by the other boys takes its toll on Geoff, although he doesn''t want to show it. He learns several life lessons under the mentoring of kindly and wise instructor "Crusty" Jelks (Herbert Mundin). Geoff confesses his runaway attempt to Captain Briggs, knowing it could mean being sent to the reformatory, so that Terry might possibly be reinstated for the Queen Mary. He asks Captain Briggs not to tell the boys that the information clearing Terry came from him. Briggs selects Terry and Geoff to join the crew of the Queen Mary. When Doris and Jim finally manage to contact Geoff, he refuses to go back to his crooked life, and tells them he is going to sail on the Queen Mary. Since the stolen necklace is too well known in England, Jim sews it inside Geoff''s coat when Geoff is not looking, and books passage aboard the Queen Mary, bound for America. The necklace is found at the school, forcing Geoff to choose between conflicting loyalties. He chooses wisely, but Doris and Jim are nowhere to be found. Geoff is taken in for questioning by the police, meaning he will miss the sea voyage. Luckily, one of his schoolmates recognizes the crooked couple on the Queen Mary, and they are arrested in time for Geoff to board the ship and join Terry.'
'comedy, romance','It is December 1938 in the town of Carvel. Andy Hardy (Mickey Rooney) is putting a $12 down payment on a used car. He is desperate to take his girlfriend Polly Benedict (Ann Rutherford) to the Christmas Eve dance in his own car, but he must pay an additional $8 by December 23 for the car to be his. When Polly tells Andy she will be visiting her grandmother for the next three weeks and will not be able to attend the Christmas Eve dance with him, Andy vows to attend the dance alone. Judge Hardy (Lewis Stone) later encounters his son, Andy, and Andy broaches the subject of car ownership, but Judge Hardy tells Andy that he cannot have his own car. Returning home for the evening, Judge Hardy runs into 12-year-old Betsy Booth (Judy Garland), who is staying with her grandparents for the Christmas holiday. Betsy’s grandmother has been effusive about Andy Hardy and Betsy is thrilled to learn he will be her next door neighbor during her stay. Judge Hardy’s wife, Emily (Fay Holden), receives a telegram that evening informing her that her mother had a serious stroke. Emily and her sister leave immediately for rural Canada to care for their mother. Andy Hardy meets Betsy Booth while delivering some of his mother’s freshly canned preserves. Betsy is obviously taken with Andy but he does not reciprocate her admiration; he leaves as quickly as possible. Beezy (George P. Breakston), Andy’s friend, asks Andy to date Cynthia (Lana Turner), Beezy’s girlfriend, while Beezy is out of town over the Christmas holiday period, so that she will avoid other men. Beezy promises to pay Andy $8 plus 50 cents a week for expenses for his efforts. Andy needs the money to purchase his car, so he agrees. Andy starts going out with Cynthia, but she is bored by sports activities, and they find they only get along when they are busy kissing; after walking Cynthia home Andy stops in to visit Betsy Booth—only he’s covered in Cynthia’s lipstick. Betsy gives Andy a handsome new radiator cap for his anticipated car, and after he leaves she sadly sings “In-Between.” One morning Andy receives a telegram from Polly saying she will be home for the Christmas Eve dance after all. Andy telephones her saying he can’t take her to the dance because of a previous engagement. He thereafter opens a letter from Beezy. Beezy wrote saying he found a new girlfriend so he wasn’t going to pay Andy for dating Cynthia. Betsy, from a moneyed family, offers to help Andy pay for his car, but he refuses her aid. That evening he tells his father about the mess he made. Judge Hardy explains his point of view about spending money on a car versus putting it aside as savings—and then discloses his deep concern for Andy’s mother. Judge Hardy would like to convey a message to his wife, but there is no telephone at her mother’s home and Emily finds telegrams unnerving. Andy suggests a message be sent to their mother via ham radio in lieu of sending her a telegram. Andy brings Judge Hardy to the home of twelve-year-old ham radio operator James McMann Jr (Gene Reynolds) and he sends a message to Mrs. Hardy. Judge Hardy is so impressed with James’ help and his son’s ingenuity that he pays the last $8 for Andy’s car. Betsy deceives Cynthia into thinking that Andy’s car is an absolute wreck; Cynthia haughtily refuses to go to the Christmas Eve dance with Andy. Andy feels relieved to be able to date Polly again. Andy tries to clear things up with Polly but, having learned of his fling with Cynthia, she angrily tells Andy that she won’t go to the dance with him because she has a date with a college boy. Christmas Eve finds Andy wholly dejected at the prospect of not having a date for the dance—but when Betsy comes over in her evening gown he decides to take her to the dance. At the dance Polly’s date recognizes Betsy as an accomplished singer and asks her to perform; Andy is scared that she will embarrass him, but she proves to be a fantastic singer and quickly wins over the crowd with “It Never Rains But it Pours” and encores with “Meet the Beat of My Heart.” Betsy and Andy lead the dance in a grand march after Polly leaves in tears. Late that evening at home after the dance, Betsy Booth and the Hardy family are gathered together around the Christmas tree when Mrs. Hardy unexpectedly returns home—her mother is getting better. On Christmas Day Betsy explains everything to Polly. Polly and her date from the dance come over to the Hardy home, and Polly’s date turns out to be her cousin. Betsy expresses her gratitude to Andy for a wonderful evening and leaves. Polly and Andy make up.'
'drama, music','Gwen Taylor (Gail Patrick) is a famous Hollywood film star and about to become more famous. On her manager''s advice, she has concealed from the press the fact that she''s a widow with a fouteen year old daughter, Gloria (Deanna Durbin). Gloria lives in a girls-only boarding school in Switzerland. Gloria never sees her Mother and never knew her Father, who died when she was just a baby; he was a navy pilot during wartime. She has invented a fictitious ''father'', from who she receives letters, which she writes herself. But the other girls are getting curious and Gloria decides to kid them that he''s about to visit her. Felice (Helen Parrish), another girl at the school, is suspicious and tries to prove that her father doesn''t exist. The girls often meet the boys from a nearby boarding school. One of them, Tommy, (Jackie Moran), has a crush on her, and she likes him as well. At a church service, Gloria sings, "Ave Maria (Bach/Gounod)" with a boy''s choir. Gloria needs to quickly find someone to act as her father for a day. She goes to the train station to meet her "father" and the man she picks at random is Richard Todd (Herbert Marshall), an English composer on holiday, accompanied by Tripps (Arthur Treacher), his valet/secretary. Amused at her presumption, he decides to play along, and comes to her school, acting like he really is her father. Gloria discovers that her mother will be visiting Paris and that Richard is also planning to visit Paris on business. She stows away on a train and manages to persuade Richard to pay her fare. In Paris, Richard discovers who Gloria''s mother is and decides that it''s about time for a reunion between her and Gloria. At a press conference, Gwen admits to having a fourteen-year-old daughter. Mother and daughter are tearfully reunited and Gwen is grateful to Richard for bringing Gloria back to her. A budding romance between Gwen and Richard is now obvious and the movie ends with Gloria singing, "A Serenade to the Stars" while the girls from her school, her mother and Richard sit happily together.'
'mystery comedy','At 3:00 am, Melsa Manton takes her little dogs for a walk. Near a subway construction site, she sees Ronnie Belden run out of a house and drive away. The house is for sale by Sheila Lane, the wife of George Lane, a wealthy banker. Inside, Melsa finds a diamond brooch and George''s dead body. As she runs for help, her cloak falls off with the brooch inside it. When the police arrive, the body, cloak, and brooch are gone. Melsa and her friends are notorious pranksters, so the Lieutenant, Mike Brent, does nothing to investigate the murder. Peter Ames writes an editorial decrying Melsa''s "prank", and she sues him for libel. Melsa and her friends decide they must find the murderer in order to defend their reputation. The resulting manhunt includes searches of the Lane house, Belden''s apartment, Lane''s business office, and all of the local beauty shops; two attempts to intimidate Melsa; two shooting attempts on her life; a charity ball; and a trap set for the murderer using Melsa as bait. During this time, the women twice attack Ames and tie him up, Melsa''s friend Myra Frost enthusiastically flirts with Peter, and their friend, Pat James, eats incessantly. In the course of these events, the following facts emerge: While Mike repeatedly accuses innocent people based on incorrect theories, Melsa deduces that Ronnie removed the body and cloak from the Lane house before the police arrived. An escaping would-be killer leaves behind a piece of tar paper, which reminds Melsa of the subway construction site. Returning to the site, she finds a fast electric cart on the track. This is how Edward made his way to and from the crime scene in ten minutes. Edward is captured after confessing to the murders and briefly holding Melsa and Peter hostage at gunpoint. During the film, the relationship between Melsa and Peter evolves from sharp animosity to love and marital engagement. Melsa appears to be hostile toward Peter, while he almost immediately decides that he''s going to marry her and begins to woo her aggressively. She stabs him in the leg with a fork in retaliation for a treacherous trick he played on her, but they have a friendly chat early in the story, and a longer, more heart-to-heart conversation later. After the police rescue them from Edward, the film ends with Melsa and Peter planning their honeymoon.'
'comedy, drama','The daughter of wealthy and famous novelist Meg Swift, Mimi is a young woman who seems to have a perfect life. The opposite appears to be the case, as her deep love for playboy Alan Wythe remains unanswered. Despite her mother''s newspaper artist friend Jimmy Kilmartin warnings of Alan''s scandalous past revolving women, Mimi is determined to one day become Mrs. Wythe. However, another woman beats her to the title. Mimi is crushed when she finds out that Alan is marrying heiress Elizabeth Kent, but swallows her pride to serve as the bridesmaid. At the wedding, Mimi overhears snobbish women gossiping about her love life. As a result, she gets drunk and admits to Alan she is in love with him. Later that night, Jimmy attempts to console her, as does Meg. Encouraged by her mother, Mimi agrees to move out of the house and build up a career to forget Alan. After moving in an apartment, Jimmy arranges her a job as an illustrator at his newspaper. Months go by and Mimi has become a happy woman, although she has not forgot about Alan. When she receives notice of Alan and Elizabeth''s return from their honeymoon, she pretends she no longer has feelings for Alan. Encouraged by those thoughts, she even agrees to meet Alan and offers him to be friends. Alan is interested in the thought of befriending a woman and they decide on going out. Meg and Jimmy spot them attending a boxing match and are immediately worried. The next day, following a joyful night with Alan, Mimi admits to Jimmy that she is still in love with Alan. Jimmy tries to prevent her from breaking up a marriage, but Mimi is determined to convince Alan to divorce Elizabeth so they can marry. She calls Elizabeth and informs her of her true feelings. Later that day, Alan, despite being discouraged by Jimmy, meets Mimi with plans of continuing their affair. He is worried, though, when he finds out he is to divorce Elizabeth. They are interrupted by a visit from Elizabeth, who blames her husband for being too selfish. Alan agrees with his wife, and accompanies Elizabeth to save their marriage, leaving Mimi behind crushed. Yet again, Jimmy consoles Mimi and they agree on ending their quarrel over their different views on morality. After arriving at Meg''s, they realize they have been in love with each other the entire time and they kiss.'
'drama','Under the grieving eyes of most of a town, the funeral procession of Doctor John Abbott (Edward Ellis) passes a lawyer''s office. The lawyer opens Abbott''s strongbox for the deceased man''s impatient creditors, local banker George Sykes (Granville Bates), newspaper editor Jode Harkness (Frank M. Thomas) and store owner Homer Ramsey (Harlan Briggs). Flashbacks begin as they peruse Dr. Abbott''s papers. Widowed, Dr. Abbott arrives in Westport with his son Dick (Lee Bowman) after World War I. He borrows money in order to set up his medical practice. He delivers a healthy baby, Jean (Anne Shirley), but the mother dies. When her father does not want her, the doctor adopts the child. Later, Ramsey tries to collect what he is owed from Abbott, only to find that Abbott has a hefty $100 bill for him for a life-saving operation. When Ramsey complains about the amount, the good-natured doctor settles for a mere $2. As time goes on, Dr. Abbott seeks to convince the town leaders of the need for a hospital. Sykes, Harkness, and Ramsey refuse to consider it. However, when Sykes''s son Howard (William Henry) accidentally shoots Jean in the arm, the doctor informs Sykes that he is required by law to report all gunshot wounds. Sykes is blackmailed into building the hospital and donating it to the town to avoid the legal problems. However, Dr. Abbott finds that Sykes has spitefully stipulated that only doctors who have had graduate studies within the last twenty years can register, and he is turned away. Meanwhile, Dick goes to Paris to train to become a doctor. When he graduates and returns to Westport, he tells his father that he is going into partnership with Dr. Robinson (Gilbert Emery) because he is more interested in making money than in helping people. This hurts the father deeply, but he never shares this with his son. When Abbott fears that an outbreak of infantile paralysis (polio) among the children is imminent, he tries to get an upcoming county fair canceled. However, Sykes and Ramsey refuse his request. They phone Jode Harkness to get him to refuse to publish Abbott''s urgent warning. Undaunted, the doctor has handbills printed and distributed by some young boys. He and Jean then visit all the children in Westport. This is brought to the attention of the county medical association, which votes to suspend him. Dick defends his father and resigns in protest. Then, Abbott is proved right. An epidemic erupts everywhere...except Westport. The association reverses itself and elects him its president. Abbott is finally recognized for his humanitarian work by the community. His son sees the light and agrees to join Abbott''s small medical practice. However, after Dick and Jean leave, he dies peacefully in his sleep. Returning to the present, Harkness, Sykes, and Ramsey finally acknowledge the goodness of the man who had been a thorn in their sides for so long.'
'drama, biography','In 1771 Vienna, 15-year-old Marie Antoinette is informed by her mother, Empress Marie Therese of Austria, that Marie is to marry the future King of France, the Dauphin Louis XVI. The young princess is excited to meet her future husband and live as a queen, but the Dauphin she married is actually a shy man, more at home with locksmithing than attending parties at the court at Versailles. After they are married, Marie tries desperately to please her husband, and after some trepidation, the Dauphin realizes he can trust Marie and tells her he cannot produce heirs. Without children to occupy her time and attention, Marie is bored and associates with the power-hungry Duc d''Orleans, even though the Dauphin does not like him. On their second wedding anniversary, Marie is insulted by Madame du Barry, the mistress of King Louis XV, who gives Marie a gift of an empty cradle with a poem critical of Marie''s inability to produce an heir to the throne. Marie is enraged, but the Dauphin is too weak to have his grandfather, King Louis XV, punish Madame du Barry. Later, at a costume party, she meets the Swedish Count Axel Fersen and introduces him as a member of the Russian nobility as a party game. She then wagers and loses a necklace worth 200,000 livres, which causes her mother''s ambassador, Count Mercy to scold her for her wanton behavior and disregard for the people. Marie is irritated by the scolding, but pays the ambassador little mind. On their fourth wedding anniversary, a ball is held to conciliate Madame du Barry and Marie, but a confrontation between the two women ensues when du Barry pointedly draws attention to the Dauphin''s absence from his wife''s ball, implying that the couple''s estrangement means there will never be an heir to the throne. When Marie responds with a cutting reference to du Barry''s past as a streetwalker, the infuriated countess storms out with the king at her side. Louis XV then decides that the childless marriage between his grandson and Marie is to be annulled. This decision finally drives the Dauphin to defend his wife; he pushes his grandfather into a chair and threatens to put du Barry in the Bastille. When Marie is told she is to be sent back to Austria, she is immediately abandoned by d''Orleans, who was only her friend because of her role as future Queen of France. Marie flees to the home of her mother''s ambassador, Count Mercy. There she finds Fersen, who tells her he loves her and has loved her for years—learning all he could about her from museums. Marie realizes that she has fallen in love with Fersen, but as she goes to tell the Dauphin of this fact, she learns that King Louis XV is dying of smallpox. The Dauphin tells Marie that he cannot let her leave; he is fond of her even if he does not love her. Marie consents; Louis XV dies, and they become King and Queen of France. Marie tells Fersen that they can meet at another palace to be together, but he refuses to risk ruining her reputation, and tells her to fulfill her duty as Queen. Later, she gives birth in front of an audience to a daughter, Marie-Therese, and after that a new Dauphin is born at last. Some years later, when the Dauphin has grown into a young boy, peasants throw stones at Marie''s carriage while she has taken her children for a drive. She is shocked at the intense dislike displayed by the people of France. She blames d''Orleans for inciting them. Marie later rejects a jeweler''s expensive and elaborate necklace, but she is framed by court insiders plotting to acquire the necklace for themselves, and the Affair of the Diamond Necklace erupts. Marie is outraged, but d''Orleans tells the royal couple to abdicate the throne in favor of the Dauphin under the regency of d''Orleans. The French Revolution comes, and the royal family is taken prisoner. Fersen returns with a plan of escape, but when the Dauphin tells a guard that his father is a locksmith, the King is recognized and arrested after a former priest at Versailles identifies him. The King is put on trial and sentenced to death, and spends his last night with his family, his children not realizing this is the last night they will spend with their father. Marie is heartbroken, but is then separated from her children, put on trial and condemned to death. The Dauphin, too young to understand what is going on around him, is forced to testify against his mother. The night before she is executed, Fersen goes to the prison and they pledge their love to each other, with Marie telling him that she will never say goodbye. The next morning she goes bravely to her execution, which Fersen witnesses from a distance.'
'comedy, drama','A career girl''s husband gets jealous when her sexist boss is too flirtatious, so she gives up her job. But soon, she finds that her career is too hard to leave behind.'
'drama, adventure','In 1903, the Wright Brothers set the scene for aviation''s advances and influence barnstormer, Pat Falconer (Fred MacMurray) and his friend, engineer Scott Barnes (Ray Milland). Falconer marries childhood sweetheart Peggy Ransom (Louise Campbell) although Barnes also loves her, but is unwilling to jeopardize his relationship with his friend. During World War I, Falconer becomes a fighter pilot and after the war continues to fly by "the seat-of-his-pants" rather than do the methodical work of flight research like Barnes. As the 1930s come to a close, restless Falconer leaves his family and friend behind, taking off for China to fight Japanese invaders.'
'comedy','Grosvenor (Alan Mowbray), the Kilbournes'' butler, discovers at breakfast that the family silver has been stolen by the latest tramp, Ambrose, whom Emily Kilbourne (Billie Burke) had taken under her wing as the chauffeur, in her latest attempt to reform fallen and destitute men, much to the exasperation of the rest of the family. A distressed Emily swears off taking in any more tramps, to the delight of the rest of the family. However, later in the morning, Wade Rawlins (Brian Aherne) appears at the doorstep. His car had broken down; when he got out, it rolled off a cliff. He wants to use the telephone, but is instead immediately adopted by Emily Kilbourne, despite the rude efforts of Grosvenor and Emily''s daughters Geraldine "Jerry" (Constance Bennett) and Marion (Bonita Granville). Further attempts to convince Mrs. Kilbourne to get rid of this latest tramp are blissfully ignored. Rawlins, appointed as the new replacement chauffeur is set up in the servant''s quarters. He is overheard talking to himself while cleaning up by Grosvenor and suspected to be crazy. Jerry and Marion see the spruced up tramp looking the perfect gentleman and Jerry likes it when he later brushes off Jerry''s arrogant wannabee boyfriend, Herbert Wheeler (Phillip Reed). They now have second thoughts when their father, Henry Kilbourne (Clarence Kolb), who has returned from work tells Emily that he is putting his foot down and orders that they get rid of the new tramp the next day. A comedy of errors, nighttime interludes with drunken family behavior, the arrogant boyfriend making a move at Jerry, follows with the rescue of the damsel in distress who has also somehow misplaced her keys where some delightful flirting ensues, resulting in Jerry falling in love with Wade. Marion also expresses a crush on Wade. The next day, Emily Kilbourne, despite orders to get rid of Wade, trains him to be a footman at the important dinner party that evening for Senator Harlan (Paul Everton). That evening, through a contrived prank by Marion, Rawlins is accidentally invited to the important dinner party for Senator Harlan, who takes quite a liking to him, as does his daughter Minerva (Ann Dvorak). The next morning, the family finds Rawlins occupying the guest room. It is impossible to throw him out, as it is discovered that he is now a confidant of Senator Harlan and his daughter''s target of affection. Jerry is consumed with jealousy, as she sees Minerva flirting with Rawlins at golf later that morning. After a fudge-making spat with Jerry, Rawlins takes the rest of the day off on an errand. The car he wrecked turns out to be a loan. He goes to pay for it, but the car has been found and the police inform the car''s owner that Rawlins is assumed to be dead. The man leaves to identify his car. Thus, when Rawlins arrives, the owner''s assistant George (Willie Best) thinks he is a ghost. The Kilbournes believe Rawlins has left for good, much to Jerry''s dismay after waiting up to reconcile with him. The next morning at breakfast, the newspaper reports the death of E. Wade Rawlins, the "noted novelist", from a car crash, much to the shock and dismay of the family, the cook and the maid. When Rawlins reappears, very much alive, Jerry is immensely relieved.'
'drama, mystery','After losing all his money gambling on horses, former newspaper reporter Barry Gilbert and "Doc" Norton break into a vacant mansion belonging to the Reitters for shelter from the rain. Just as the pair are settling in, Willetts and three other servants arrive. Willetts, the butler, does not know what the long-absent, but expected John Clark Reitter Jr. looks like, so he assumes that Barry is him. Barry decides to impersonate young Reitter, the black sheep son of a wealthy New York newspaper publisher, for a while when he learns the family will be away for weeks. A neighbor, Patricia Hammond, develops an interest in Barry, while a showgirl, Peggy, wife of the real John Reitter Jr. (under the name Jay Rogers), shows up and tells him her husband is being framed for the murder of a political bigshot. Barry agrees to try to clear him in exchange for Peggy not revealing his masquerade. Barry reluctantly accepts a job on Reitter Sr.''s paper under an assumed name, and though editor Bill Harwood warns him not to play detective (a common tendency of new reporters), he does anyway. He gets into trouble with Patricia when he learns that her father, Judge Hammond, was with the victim the day he was killed. He jumps to the conclusion that the judge is the killer, but the real murderer - nightclub owner Luis Romano - is eventually caught (in spite of Barry''s efforts), and John is released. When Patricia and her father are introduced to John by his father, who has returned early, they wonder who Barry really is. Meanwhile, Barry does his best to hide what has gone on and to present John in the best light to his family. John''s mother learns the truth from John and Peggy, but is pleased to conceal the story from her husband, who is very proud of his reformed son. Harwood lets Barry keep his job and sends him to get the scoop on a rich widow''s new husband, who turns out to be Doc Norton. Patricia catches up with him and demands to know what is going on. When Barry tells her it would take a lifetime to explain, she replies, "Darling, that''s just what I mean."'
'drama','Mr. Carey (Ralph Morgan), a captain in the United States Navy, dies during the Spanish–American War. His wife Margaret, daughters Nancy and Kitty and sons Gilbert and Peter are left behind. They are now on their own with only Capt. Carey''s pension for income. The family moves into a series of ever-smaller rented houses while Mrs. Carey works in a textile mill. When she is injured, they lease a broken down mansion for a year at a nominal fee, and invest the captain''s small life insurance payment to fix it up into a boarding house. Both daughters fall in love, Kitty with a local teacher and Nancy with Tom Hamilton (Frank Albertson), the son of the absentee owner. When the Hamiltons put the house up for sale, the family is given an eviction order by Tom Hamilton, a doctor who wants the money from the sale to study in Europe. However, fate intervenes and Tom is called to save Peter from a serious illness, then falls in love with Nancy. The new owners, the Fullers, move in to force the family to vacate. The Careys and their beaus then try to scare off the Fullers by telling them the house is haunted, and making assorted spooky noises at night, hoping they will leave.[2]'
'drama, mystery','In San Francisco, policeman Lieutenant Riggs (Harold Huber) takes Mr. Moto, a detective and Lee Chan (Keye Luke), a student, to a prizefight between Bill Steele (Dick Baldwin) and Frank Stanton (Russ Clark), where the winner will take on the champion, Biff Moran (Ward Bond). However, the fight is fixed and gangster Nick Crowder (Douglas Fowley) bets big money that Stanton won''t make it to the fifth round. He goes down in the fourth and dies shortly afterward. Bookie Clipper McCoy (Bernard Nedell) loses a fortune. Moto proves that it was murder and it is revealed that $100,000 was won in bets around the country against Stanton. Moto works with Lt. Riggs to solve the murder as the championship fight looms. Comedy is provided by Wellington (Maxie Rosenbloom), a kleptomaniac, and Lee Chan. Moto promised to reveal the murderer''s identity on the night of the big fight, but the murderer has plans, too, with a concealed gun, to kill Moto.'
'drama, mystery','Simon Dayton is in fear for his life and seeks the help of Mr. Wong to protect him. Just prior to meeting Mr. Wong, Dayton is found dead in his office without a mark on him with several witnesses testifying Dayton was alone in his office that was locked from the inside. Though the police view Dayton''s death as due to a heart attack, Mr. Wong discovers a broken glass ball that contained poison gas. Among the suspects are agents of a foreign power wishing to stop Dayton''s chemicals being sent to use on the foreign power in the form of the same poison gas that killed Dayton, Dayton''s business partners who will have Dayton''s share of the business come to them after Dayton''s death and the actual inventor of the chemical who has been cheated out of profits and recognition by Dayton.'
'drama','Mary Colbrook is a widowed mother with four children. She struggles to provide for them financially.'
'comedy, romance','George Cabot Jr. (Cesar Romero), the son of a department store owner, enrolls the store''s sports clerk Krista Nielsen (Sonja Henie) at a university to use her as an advertisement for their fashion department. George is trying to pay off cabaret singer Marcelle La Verne, who wants to annul their brief elopement. Marcelle threatens to name Krista as a co-respondent in her lawsuit. Krista has fallen for Larry Taylor at the college, where a skating exhibition lands her on the cover of Life magazine.'
'western','In the Arizona desert in the late 1800s, famed outlaw Pecos Bill (Douglass Dumbrille) and his sidekick Frosty Kilburn (Sidney Toler) hold up a stagecoach. During the raid, Bill takes money from a wealthy passenger and gives it to a poor woman passenger, then rides away. Having lived an outlaw life for the past twenty years, and still wanted for a murder he did not commit, Pecos Bill, whose real name is Ben Wade, decides to return to his home town disguised as a regular cowboy to see his now grown daughter. Meanwhile, Jack Bellounds (Weldon Heyburn), the son of the corrupt rancher William Bellounds (Stanley Andrews) who stole Ben''s White Slider ranch, returns from prison and is given a ride back to the ranch by Ben''s beautiful daughter Collie Wade (Charlotte Field), who was raised by his father. When Collie refuses his offer of marriage, the arrogant Jack races their horse-drawn carriage wildly through the desert. Seeing the runaway carriage, the gallant ranch forman Wils Moore (Russell Hayden) chases them down and stops the horses. As Wils rides off, Jack notices that Collie is attracted to Wils. When Ben and Frosty arrive at White Slider ranch, they get hired on as saddle makers, with Ben going by the name of Red Johnson. No one recognizes him—not even his daughter who hasn''t seen him since her childhood. After settling in, Ben learns that 200 head of cattle have been stolen, and that Bellounds seems uninterested in finding the thieves. With the help of Frosty and Wils—one of the few honest men at the ranch—Ben intends to put a stop to the cattle rustling and restore the ranch to his daughter, the rightful owner. Meanwhile, Jack meets with Cap Folsom (Monte Blue), the leader of the cattle rustlers and Jack''s former boss. Cap is also the man who murdered Ben''s partner and framed him for the crime. Jack complains about the timing of the recent raid, but Folsom dismisses him, saying he can never turn his back on his outlaw past. At the ranch, Ben is tasked with working with the dogs on the ranch, and soon he uses his position to guard the cattle. One afternoon, Ben meets his daughter on the range and they talk about her future. Concerned that she may end up with a lout like Jack, he tells her that she will need to decide between Jack and Wils. Soon after, Ben is alerted by his barking dogs to rustlers in the area, and dressed in black as Pecos Bill, he rides after them. The rustlers recognize the approaching outlaw and take cover. During the ensuing gunfight, Wils arrives with his trustworthy men, sees Pecos Bill, and chases after him instead of the rustlers. Back at the ranch, Wils attempts to capture Ben, but is thwarted by a well-placed knife throw by Frosty. Knowing that Wils is on the right side of the law, Ben reveals his true identity and the truth behind how he lost his ranch—that he left his foreman William Bellounds to look after things, but he stole the ranch for himself, and now is rustling his own cattle for profit. Convinced he is on the level, Wils pledges to help Ben. When the other ranchers get together to search for the rustlers, Ben dresses up in black like Pecos Bill, draws their attention, and leads them to the rustlers'' hideout. The plan backfires when the ranchers discover that Wils helped Pecos Bill to escape. Just as the mob prepares to lynch Wils, Pecos Bill rides in to the rescue. When Bellounds figures out that Pecos Bill is in fact Ben Wade, his former boss, he reveals his discovery to the leader of the rustlers, Cap Folsom. Soon, Bellounds is gunned down in cold blood. Jack goes after Cap to avenge his father''s death, and is himself soon killed. Ben, Wils, and Frosty go after Cap and they meet in a fierce gunfight. During the battle, Ben tracks down Cap in the rustlers hideout, gives him a chance to draw, and then shoots him dead. Sometime later, Ben and Frosty say their goodbyes to Collie and Wils and ride away into the Arizona desert.'
'comedy','In this screwy romantic comedy, a young woman (Lucille Ball) stands to inherit $20 million provided she marries an American citizen. Unfortunately, she is in love with a handsome foreigner. To get the money, she marries the first Yankee she runs across—with every intention of obtaining a quickie divorce in Reno as soon as the money comes through. The bickersome newlyweds take a trailer and set off across the country to Reno, but through a series of zany mishaps and adventures they realize that they are slowly falling in love.'
'drama','Young Jason Wilkins (Gene Reynolds) has a stern but loving preacher father, Rev. Ethan Wilkins (Walter Huston), and a doting mother, Mary Wilkins (Beulah Bondi). Jason is highly intelligent and outgoing, but also proud and stubborn. His father must often beat him with a leather strap for his impertinence, pride, and rudeness. As a young man (James Stewart), Jason falls in love with beautiful Annie (Ann Rutherford). When Jason''s father takes him circuit riding, Jason rebels at the bad food and awful living conditions, and has a fistfight with his father. This ruptures their relationship. Jason goes to medical school, and becomes a doctor. He is increasingly neglectful of his parents, and when his father dies he arrives too late to speak with him one last time. Despite his mother''s poverty, Jason repeatedly asks her for money, forcing her to sell her silver spoons, and eventually her wedding band, for food. The American Civil War breaks out, and she must sell Jason''s beloved horse Pilgrim to pay for his fancy $70.00 officer''s uniform. When Jason fails to write to her for 2 years, Mrs. Wilkins assumes that he is dead and writes a letter to President Abraham Lincoln (John Carradine) asking for information in locating his grave. Lincoln issues an order requiring the young captain to appear before him without delay. Jason arrogantly assumes that he is about to be commended for his actions as a battlefield surgeon. Instead, with the two of them alone in his office, the President accuses him of possessing the worst human quality of all, ingratitude.'
'western','A horse trader named Gene Autry (Gene Autry) arrives in Grainville with his horses and outfit prepared to put on a barn dance to attract potential horse buyers to an auction. The horse trading business has been affected lately by the increased use of tractors to replace horses for farm work. Radio station owner Sally Dawson (Joan Valerie) approaches Gene and offers him a contract to sing on a program sponsored by Thornton Farming Equipment, the area''s leading manufacturer of tractors. Unconvinced that tractors could ever replace horses, Gene refuses her offer, but is still attracted to her and invites her to his barn dance that night. Unknown to Gene, Sally is facing bankruptcy and needs to find a way to save the radio station. Knowing that Mr. Thornton (Ivan Miller), the tractor company owner, would sign a contract with her station if Gene would promote his product, Sally and her kid brother Johnny secretly broadcast Gene''s show under the sponsorship of Thornton Farming Equipment. After hearing the broadcast and the audience reaction, Thornton agrees to give Sally an advance for Gene''s upcoming shows, thereby saving the radion station. Later she tells Gene that if he signs a general contract with her, he would make enough money to offset his poor horse sales. In the coming weeks, Sally broadcasts Gene''s barn dances via remote control hook-ups, presenting them as promotions for the tractor company. The farmers of the area, believing that Gene is endorsing the use of tractors, begin to purchase them using loans from a finance company. As harvest time approaches, however, many of the farmers are unable to make their payments on time, and the finance company, conspiring with Thornton, threatens to repossess the tractors unless the farmers sign over a percentage of their harvest profits. The farmers are given less than a week to decide. Believing that Gene is involved in the finance company''s scheme, the farmers confront him at a barn dance and a major fight breaks out. Afterwards, when Gene learns the truth from Sally about how he has been used to promote tractor sales, he promises the farmers that he will provide horses to all of them to get them through the harvest. Meanwhile, Thornton demands that Sally return his advance payment since Gene will no longer be performing on the radio show. Fearing for her father''s health and with no other option available, Sally agrees to broadcast recordings of Gene''s barn dances to continue promoting the tractor company. When Thornton learns that Gene and his men are rounding up horses for the farmers, he orders his henchmen to stampede the herd. During the stampede, a cowboy is seriously injured. Later, when the farmers hear Gene''s voice on Sally''s radio station, they suspect he has betrayed them, but when Gene arrives, they all realize they are listening to a recording. Angered by the deception, Gene heads over to the radio station with his sidekick Frog Millhouse (Smiley Burnette) and destroy the records, leaving the station in ruins. Later, Sally''s kid brother Johnny is able to restore a record he made of Thornton discussing the stampede. At the county fair, Gene arrives with his horses, but the sheriff seizes them based on Thornton''s claim for damages to the radio station. While Frog uses a tractor to destroy Thornton''s platform, Sally and Johnny broadcast the incriminating record of Thornton discussing the stampede over the public address system. When Thornton and his men arrive at the station, Sally and Johnny drive off, with Thornton in hot pursuit. Gene chases after the cars on horseback, shoots one of the henchmen, and captures Thornton. Afterwards, Gene and Sally head back to town together on horseback.'
'western','A wagon train travelling from Independence, Missouri to Santa Fe means trouble for Alfredo Dupray, his authority from Spain will end with the arrival of a Mexican Governor. He plots to solve this by intercepting a trade agreement, to be negotiated by Clark Stuart on the wagon train, and disrupt Mexico–United States relations. Repeated attacks are thwarted, however, by the appearance of a mysterious Rider on a Painted Stallion who issues warnings with her whistling arrows. With her help Clark Stuart, along with historical characters, Kit Carson, Jim Bowie and Davy Crockett work to defeat Dupray. Eventually, they assist the arrival of the United States Cavalry and the treaty is signed, leaving Stuart and the Rider to ride away together.'
'western','Lorna Drake (Gwen Gaze), is an aristocratic British girl and Hoppy''s (William Boyd) new employer. When Cassidy refuses to be ordered, Lorna has him arrested for horse stealing. The dumbfounded sheriff (Earle Hodgins) is even more puzzled when Miss Drake turns right around and demands that Hoppy be released into her custody.[3]'
'comedy','Private investigator Lance O''Leary (Patric Knowles) suffers a nervous breakdown from being unable to solve a case and his doctor has him hospitalized for rest. It just happens to be the same place where his lady friend, Sara Keate (Ann Sheridan), is the head nurse. The first night there a murder takes place as wealthy Mr. Warren is killed in his room and $100,000 worth of medicinal radium on his chest is stolen. Also, head doctor Dr. Lethany is murdered as well. Everyone on the staff seems to have a motive and O''Leary must work with combative Inspector Foley (Cliff Clark) to solve the crime.'
'drama','William Jordan (Howard) is befriended by the man who sent him to prison on a manslaughter charge, former DA (District attorney) now prison warden Matthews (Connolly). In order to give Jordan the opportunity to rehabilitate himself Matthews allows him to work as chauffeur to his daughter Elizabeth (Parker), though he''s a bit uncomfortable when Elizabeth falls in love with the young convict. All of this extra effort goes out the window when Jordan, adhering to the "criminal code" of never snitching on a fellow con, allows himself to be implicated in the murder of another convict. Jordan is saved from the death penalty by a last-minute confession of his hard-bitten but honorable cellmate.'
'comedy, drama','In the French port of Marseille, a lovely young woman named Madelon (Maureen O''Sullivan) is in love with a young sailor, Marius (John Beal). Madelon in turn is loved by Honore Panisse (Frank Morgan), a well-to-do middle-aged sailmaker. When Marius finds out he must go to sea for three years, he leaves without saying goodbye to Madelon; in a note he tells her that it would break his heart to tell her in person. She rushes to the dock, but sees his ship sailing away and faints. Marius''s father Cesar, (Wallace Beery) who already thinks of Madelon as one of the family, carries her to her home. Later, Madelon finds out that she is pregnant, and to spare her the shame of a child born out of wedlock, Panisse asks Madelon to get an abortion. She agrees, and goes to find a rusty clotheshanger. She proceeds with her attempt to kill her fetus. She did not succeed, and was rushed to the hospital bleeding. A year later Marius unexpectedly returns from sea to buy some equipment for his ship. Visiting Madelon that night, he sees the baby and realizes that he is the father. He asks her to steal away with him, but she refuses. Despite her love for Marius, she knows that Panisse, who adores the child, will be a better father than Marius, who will be away at sea for many years at a time. Marius leaves, shaking Panisse''s hand before he goes, and Panisse and Madelon happily look at their baby''s first tooth.[1][2]'
'drama','Joaquin Shannon (Barton MacLane) a fisherman takes the blame for a crime to protect his brother-in-law Joe Fenderson (Edward Pawley) who died from injuries from a mugging. He is sentenced to 10 years in prison for the crime. Joaquin asks Joe''s sister and his girlfriend Jean Fenderson (Glenda Farrell) to wait for him, expecting to be paroled in one year for good behavior. However, in prison, he battles with Red Kincaid (Ward Bond). Joaquin''s repeat altercation with Red causes him to fail his parole examination and his prison sentences are lengthened. Later, when Joaquin helps to stop a prison break which was led by Red, he is immediately released from prison. Joaquin reunites with Jean. However, because of his criminal record and prison sentence, he is shunned and dismissed by employers. In a bar, he meets Soapy (Paul Hurst) a fellow ex-convict. Soapy convinces Joaquin to smuggle someone out of the country, who is actually Red and has escaped from prison. When Red and Soapy show up at the boat, they force Joaquin to navigate the boat. A dying Soapy who was shot by the police, tells Joaquin that Red killed Jean''s brother. After finding out the truth, Joaquin fights Red to the death.'
'comedy','Three thousand years after ancient Egyptian Neferus''s death, Professor Dean Lambert (who looks like Neferus) is translating his history tablet by tablet. Dean is convinced that falling in love will ruin him as it did Neferus, whose love to the Pharaoh''s daughter led to his downfall. He meets aspiring actress and heiress Jane Van Buren and exchanges clothes with her drunk audition partner, Snoop Donlan. Dean is arrested for stinking of liquor. His arrest makes the papers and he is asked to resign from the museum staff. Dean has ten days to join an expedition leaving for Egypt from New York and becomes a stowaway in the trailer of a pair of newlyweds bound for Niagara Falls. Snoop then accuses Dean of stealing his watch and clothes. Jane, meanwhile, follows the trailer in order to return Dean''s clothes and the museum''s car. The newlyweds kick Dean out, while the police trail him on suspicion of robbery and jumping bail. Jane then finds Dean and urges him to clear himself, but he convinces her to keep going to New York. While fleeing the police, Jane and Dean camp in the desert, and he falls in love and kisses her. The kiss causes a storm to break, just like the story of Neferus and Anebi. Dean is struck by lightning and begins speaking in a strange language. The next day, he leaves Jane a note saying that "Death lies ahead" if they continue their romance. After many adventures, Sheriff Sweat of Springville, Pennsylvania, finally apprehends Dean, but Jane picks him up in the museum car, which is discovered by the police. A chase ensues. While hiding in the woods, the couple discusses the eighth tablet of Neferus, which says "marriage." After hopping a refrigerator car, the couple is brought before a kindly judge, who dismisses the charges brought against them so that they can marry. The papers print that Jane is to marry a hobo. Dean wants to avoid making his bad luck worse, but he marries Jane in New York. He then must face her father, who accuses him of being a fortune hunter. Dr. Ellison, head of the expedition, gives Dean a fake missing fragment of the ninth and last tablet for a wedding present, which Jane has inscribed with the story of Neferus saving Anebi from her father, who has abducted her. Dean boards what he believes is the Van Burens'' yacht and fights for his bride, destroying the yacht, to the delight of Van Buren, who now accepts him. Jane then realizes Dean fought for her knowing the tablet was fake. The couple is united and, years later, as an old man, Dean finally finds the real ninth tablet, which assures him he is not going to die tomorrow.'
'romantic comedy','In New York City, Frenchwoman Nicole de Cortillon seeks modeling work and manages to steal a name and address from a modeling agency by lying about her qualifications, but it is the wrong information. She starts undressing in the advertising office of a very puzzled Jim Trevor. When she finally realizes he is not a photographer, she storms out. Nicole is locked out of her room by her landlady for being behind on her rent, but her friend Gloria helps her out by paying the arrears. Gloria suggests she try to snare a rich husband. Gloria is good friends with Mike, the head waiter at the ritzy Savoy Grand Hotel, so she tries to get him to hire Gloria. Mike has no openings, but mentions that he has saved $3000 to open a restaurant. He needs another $2000, so Gloria convinces him to finance a scheme to have Gloria attract the attention of Bill Duncan, a regular hotel guest who "owns half of Canada". Nicole and Gloria settle into a suite across the hall from Bill''s. The plan hits a snag when Bill''s good friend Jim Trevor recognizes her. Jim demands she tell Bill the truth. She agrees, but reneges. When Jim tells Bill, Bill does not believe him, as they have both lied before to steal each other''s girlfriends. Jim blackmails Nicole into dining with him and gets her to confess that she needs $3000 in front of his butler Rigley. He departs to inform Bill, but she escapes Rigley''s custody and gets to Bill first. When Bill introduces Nicole to his family, Jim brings Rigley to the reception, but Bill remains unconvinced and punches Jim in the jaw. Ashamed, Nicole follows after Jim and offers to confess all, but he does not believe her. She gets into Jim''s car to see if he has been injured. He then drives off with her, taking her to his isolated country retreat, where his caretaker mistakes her for his new wife. That night, Nicole confesses to Jim that she has fallen in love with him, but he only asks her when she found out he is richer than Bill. She slips out and hitches a ride back to New York. Bill finally discovers the truth and becomes worried about a breach of promise lawsuit. Mike promises to get Nicole to leave the country ... in exchange for his money back ($5000). Nicole boards a ship bound for France. There she finds Jim, who is arranging for the captain to marry them.'
'comedy, drama','Rebecca Winstead (Shirley Temple), a musically talented orphan, is under the guardianship of her stepfather Harry Kipper (William Demarest). She auditions for the radio role of Little Miss America and wins it, but leaves the studio believing she lost it. Kipper regards her as a loser and a burden, and dumps her on the farm of her Aunt Miranda. Tony Kent, the radio advertising executive who approved Rebecca for the role of Little Miss America, lives next door to Miranda. He recognizes Rebecca, and asks Miranda''s permission to feature Rebecca on his radio show. When Aunt Miranda (Helen Westley) refuses to allow Rebecca to associate with show people, Kent broadcasts secretly from his house with Rebecca joining him on the sly. Kipper hears Rebecca''s broadcast and returns to the farm looking for easy money. As Rebecca''s legal guardian, he forces Aunt Miranda to surrender the child. He takes her away from her friends and loved ones to New York City. There, he signs a contract with Kent''s competitor Purvis (Alan Dinehart) to star Rebecca on another radio show. When Rebecca suddenly develops laryngitis and cannot sing, Purvis angrily voids the contract. Kipper sells his legal guardianship to Aunt Miranda for $5,000. Rebecca reveals to her friends she feigned hoarseness to free herself from Kipper. The film ends with Rebecca and Aunt Miranda''s farm hand Aloysius costumed as toy soldiers performing a dance on a flight on stairs. Subplots include a romance between Kent and Rebecca''s cousin Gwen, another between radio singers Orville and Lola, and the rekindling of an old romance between Aunt Miranda and neighbor Homer Busby.'
'western','The Cattlemen''s Association has called in the Mesquiteers to find cattle rustlers. They get Tex Riley to pose as Stony so Stony can arrive posing as a wanted outlaw. This gets Stony into the gang of rustlers and he alerts Tucson and Lullaby as to the next raid. But Hartley is on hand and unknown to anyone is the rustler''s boss and he joins the posse with a plan that will do away with the Mesquiteers.'
'comedy, drama','The wealthy young businessman Bill Harrison (Robert Young) moves in with secretary girlfriend Joan Thayer''s (Ruth Hussey) eccentric family to convince her they can make their marriage work.'
'comedy','Gordon Miller (Groucho Marx), a flat-broke theatrical producer, whose staff includes Harry Binelli (Chico) and Faker Englund (Harpo), is told by brother-in-law Joseph Gribble (Cliff Dunstan), manager of the White Way Hotel, that he and his cast of twenty-two actors, who have run up an enormous bill of $1,200, have to leave the hotel immediately or face the wrath of supervising director Gregory Wagner (Donald MacBride). Miller has assembled the cast and crew of his play, Hail and Farewell, in the hotel ballroom. Miller is planning on skipping out on the hotel without paying the bill when he receives word that one of his actresses, Christine Marlowe (Lucille Ball), has arranged for a backer. Miller must keep his room and hide the cast and crew until the meeting with the backer can take place. At the same time, Wagner discovers the debt. Assured by Gribble that Miller had skipped, Wagner is surprised to find Miller still in his room, now joined by the play''s author, Leo Davis (Frank Albertson), who has arrived in town and checked into Miller''s room. When Wagner threatens to evict Miller before the backer can arrive, Miller and Binelli convince Davis to pretend to be sick. To obtain food, Miller promises waiter Sasha Smirnoff (Alexander Asro) a part in the play. When Davis leaves to meet with girlfriend Hilda Manney (Ann Miller), Englund takes over as the sick patient examined by a doctor brought in by Mr. Wagner. Wagner leaves to confront the crowd in the ballroom, while the doctor examines the patient. To delay the doctor giving his report to Wagner, Binelli and Miller tie him up, gag him, and lock him in the bathroom. The agent for Mr. Fisk arrives to sign over the cheque, the doctor breaks free in the bathroom, and the agent is hit on the head accidentally as Englund chases a flying turkey around with a baseball bat. The agent just wants to escape the madness, but reluctantly signs over the cheque, and leaves. Davis returns and says he heard the agent saying he''ll cancel the cheque, and just signed it to get out of the room. Wagner is fooled into believing all is okay, and upgrades the boys to a fancier room. Later, as the play is about to open, the cheque from Fisk bounces, Miller, Binelli, and Englund manipulate Wagner into believing he''s driven the play''s author to take poison. They pretend to give Davis large quantities of Ipecac (which is actually drunk by Englund), and he eventually pretends to die. Wagner is bluffed into believing it''s all his fault and helps take the "body" down to the alley. As Miller and Wagner prop Englund on a crate, a passing policeman asks what''s going on. Miller bluffs their way out of the situation, so he and Wagner make an escape, leaving Englund "asleep". They go to watch the end of the play, which is a scene where the miners are bringing a body from out of the mine. The body on the stretcher is Englund''s. Wagner realizes he''s been duped as the play is greeted with thunderous applause and a revived Davis appears next to Wagner at the back of the theatre.'
'drama, crime','Police Lieutenant Martin, an officer leading the fight against New York gangsters, is killed. Jake Irbell is arrested and charged with his murder, but has to be released when prosecution witnesses are either coerced into changing their testimony or simply disappear. A civilian crime commission demands action of the police commissioner, but he has no fresh ideas. William Valcross (Frederick Burton), a respected leading citizen and member of the commission, suggests they resort to drastic measures and recruit Simon Templar (Louis Hayward), the "Saint", a British amateur Detective with a reputation for dealing with criminals outside the law. The commissioner reluctantly agrees to give the Saint free rein to do what he must. Valcross spends months tracking the Saint down, following a trail of dead (criminal) bodies across Europe and South America. Templar is intrigued by the challenge and is given a list of six gangsters whose removal would hopefully bring peace to the city. Disguised as a nun, the Saint kills Irbell just as he is about to shoot his most determined enemy, Inspector Henry Fernack (Jonathan Hale). (This differs from the original novel in which the Saint shoots an accused cop-killer in cold blood after the man walks free from court). As he works his way through the list, Templar learns that the mysterious "Big Fellow" is the mastermind who hides his identity by communicating with his underlings solely through Fay Edwards (Kay Sutton). Templar meets Fay, and they are attracted to each other. She saves his life twice when his recklessness gets him in trouble. The Saint disposes of the last of the six original targets, Hutch Rellin (Sig Ruman), leaving only their leader. Fay has given her word not to divulge the Big Fellow''s name, but agrees to point him out when she meets him the next morning at the bank where the profits of three years worth of crime have been kept. When Valcross happens by, Templar tells him why he is waiting there. Valcross starts to leave, but when Fay shows up, she recognizes him. He fatally shoots her before Templar guns down the Big Fellow. Valcross wanted Templar to kill his men so he would not have to share the loot.'
'comedy','Helen Murphy, alias Dorothy Madison number 1 (Constance Bennett), runs a very successful agency, "Dorothy Madison Services," for wealthy people who need someone to run their lives. A huge staff is up 24 hours a day to attend to all sorts of problems. Her alter ego, Pearl, alias Dorothy Madison 2 (Helen Broderick), is there to assist Murphy, who dreams of finding a man who is able to run his own life. Robert Wade (Vincent Price), a young inventor from Albany, New York, leaves behind him five old aunts who tried to run his life. He comes to town to develop his tractor model. Murphy and Wade meet on the boat. Murphy is orders from Wade''s uncle (Lionel Belmore), who is client of Madison Services, but she picks the wrong man to send back home, while she meets Wade and is instantly fascinated by him, although he thinks she''s not a career girl and thinks she is rather helpless. When she discovers that the man she met on the boat was Wade, she has some problems how to manage this relationship. Her client Mr. Robinson (Charles Ruggles) is willing to finance Wade''s tractor model and arranges a laboratory for him. Unfortunately, his daughter Audrey (Joy Hodges) wants to marry Wade. While her father has adapted a kitchen in his library to be taught how to cook by Bibenko (Mischa Auer), Audrey tries to be in the basement laboratory with Wade. When it comes out that Bibenko is a Russian prince, Audrey finds he''s the better husband-to-be. Wade marries Murphy, who leaves behind her career-girl life to become a wife.'
'drama','Olivia Riley (Joan Crawford), a New York City nightclub dancer, tires of the fast life and consents to marry Henry Linden (Melvyn Douglas), a wealthy farmer from Wisconsin. Even before they engage to be married, however, Henry''s brother David (Robert Young) is sent to New York by their domineering sister Hannah (Fay Bainter) to dissuade him from marrying Olivia. In private, Olivia slaps David when her integrity is questioned, but she marries Henry because she says he''s the only person in her life who is endlessly positive. When Olivia moves to her new husband''s farm in Wisconsin, she encounters trouble from her sister-in-law Hannah, who does not approve of her. Olivia finds an ally in David''s wife, Judy (Margaret Sullavan), who is in a loveless marriage. Olivia comes to realize that she and Judy are in the same situation. Olivia''s situation is further complicated when David defends her from the unwanted advances of a farm hand and he begins to fall in love with her. Henry is unaware of this, but when Hannah finds out what is going on, she sets fire to the home in a drunken rage. Olivia saves a badly burned Judy, and David realizes he has loved Judy after all. Olivia then decides to leave the farm; and, as she drives away, Henry joins her and they leave together.'
'drama, war','After the United States enters World War I in 1917, the limousine carrying Daisy Heath (Margaret Sullavan), a sophisticated Broadway musical theatre star, knocks down Bill Pettigrew (James Stewart), a naive young soldier from Texas. A policeman orders the chauffeur to take Bill back to camp. During the ride, he becomes slightly acquainted with the cynical, but not cold-hearted Daisy. Upon their arrival at the army camp, Bill lets his buddies assume that Daisy is the date he had lied about. In fact, he has no one. When they find out the truth, they decide to get even. On their next leave, they take Bill to Daisy''s show, so he can introduce them. However, Daisy pretends that she is Bill''s girl. As they spend more time together, she begins to warm to him, much to the increasing jealousy of her wealthy real boyfriend, Sam Bailey (Walter Pidgeon), who is financing Daisy''s show. When Sam takes Daisy out for an afternoon at his Connecticut estate for the first time, she tells him that Bill has shown her what true love looks like and made her realize she actually does love Sam. She also believes that the rivalry has also given new depth to Sam''s love for her. That same day, Bill learns that his unit is finally going to ship out for the fighting in Europe. When he cannot get a leave, he goes AWOL so he can propose marriage. Daisy opts to accept so that he can sail for France with something to look forward to. Sam objects to the odd arrangement privately to Daisy, but kindly refrains from telling Bill the truth. The two marry; then Bill has to leave immediately. He sends her cheerful letters every day. Then, a letter comes from the War Department. As Daisy is in the middle of a performance, her maid Martha takes it to Sam, sitting in the audience. When Sam opens the letter, Bill''s ID tag falls out. Daisy sees it, tears fill her eyes as she realizes that Bill has been killed, but she bravely finishes singing "Pack Up Your Troubles in Your Old Kit-Bag and Smile, Smile, Smile".'
'musical comedy','The three Beebe brothers are talented singers looking to make their way in the world. Joe Beebe (Bing Crosby) is a chronic gambler and a source of great consternation for his loving mother (Elizabeth Patterson), who only wishes he would follow the example of his responsible brother David (Fred MacMurray), who postpones his marriage to Martha Randall (Ellen Drew) regularly because Joe cannot support the family. Mike Beebe (Donald O''Connor), the youngest of the three brothers, idolizes his gambler brother and wants to grow up to be just like him. While Joe is always looking for an angle, convinced his only road to success is through gambling, David prefers working in his garage and dreams of the day he can afford to marry Martha. After losing his new job at the local gas station for trading gas for rummage articles, Joe travels to Los Angeles and soon wins money at the racetrack. Using the money to purchase a swap shop, Joe then trades the store for a racehorse named Uncle Gus. After Joe sends back home glowing reports of his success, Mother Beebe and Mike travel out to California and stay with him. Later, David and Martha also travel to Los Angeles and are shocked to see the rest of their family living on the brink of poverty because of Joe''s laziness. Forced once again to postpone his wedding, David sends Martha back home. With no money coming in, Mother Beebe forces her sons to use their musical training and go to work as a singing trio at a nightclub. Meanwhile, young Mike has been chosen to ride in a big race as Uncle Gus'' jockey. One of their competitors, Harry Ringmer (John Gallaudet), bribes the thirteen-year-old into losing the race. Later, when Mike reveals the arrangement to Joe, the older brother reassures him and advises him to race to win. After Mike and Uncle Gus win the race, Ringmer and one of his thugs confront Mike and Joe and beat them up. David and Mother Beebe come to their rescue, and the fight continues until Ringmer and his thug give up. With enough money to pay their debts, David tries to quit the singing group, but his mother insists that they all keep their steady singing jobs, and her sons agree. David sends Martha a telegram asking her to come back to "marry the four of them", and the three Beebe brothers continue their singing career.'
'drama','A passenger aircraft crashes in mid-Pacific and some of the survivors reach an island inhabited only by an American, Jim Taylor, with his Chinese servant, Ping. He declines to help them, telling them to build their own shelter and gather their own food and, though he has a boat and fuel, refusing to take them off. The reason why he wants to remain undisturbed, we learn, is that he is wanted for murder. In time his attitude to the intruders softens as they, despite endless bickering, manage to form a working community and he finds himself increasingly drawn to an attractive young nurse, Anne Wesson, who is running away from her husband. When the boat is prepared for a trip to civilization, two crooked businessmen from the party steal it with Ping on board. In a fight, he kills them both and, fatally wounded, brings the boat back. The rest can then escape.'
'drama','At a ball held on the night of the 1904 presidential election, serious Louise, frivolous Helen, and stolid Grace, daughters of Silver Bow, Montana pharmacist Ned Elliott and his wife Rose, find themselves dealing with romantic prospects. Tom Knivel is about to propose to Louise when Frank Medlin, a San Francisco sports reporter, asks her to dance. Infatuated with the young woman, Frank extends his stay, and at Sunday dinner in the Elliott home he announces he and Louise plan to wed. Although her parents disapprove of the union, Louise leaves for San Francisco with Frank that night. Grace eventually marries the jilted Tom and Helen weds wealthy Sam Johnson, who promises her freedom and asks for nothing in return. Although facing financial difficulty, Louise urges Frank to complete his novel. When she becomes pregnant, she decides to keep her condition a secret, but finally reveals the truth when she accompanies Frank to a boxing match and the smoke and smells make her ill. Returning home, Louise suffers a miscarriage while climbing the stairs to their apartment, and her distraught husband begins to drink heavily. Overwhelmed by increasing medical bills and a sense of worthlessness, Frank demands a raise but is rebuffed by his editor who, telling him his writing is suffering as a result of his drinking, fires him. Louise tries to console him by announcing she has found employment at a local department store, but Frank''s hurt pride prompts him to forbid her to work. Louise ignores his demand, and while her husband struggles to find a job, she thrives as secretary to store owner William Benson. Fellow sportswriter Tim Hazelton suggests Frank leave San Francisco in order to get a fresh start, and he decides to accept work on a ship bound for Singapore. When Louise arrives home, she finds a note from Frank and rushes to the docks, where a policeman mistaking her for a prostitute arrests her. By the time she is released, Frank''s ship has sailed. A few hours later, much of the city, including Louise''s apartment building, is destroyed by the 1906 earthquake. When Ned is unable to contact his daughter, he travels to San Francisco to search for her, but she has sought refuge with her friend Flora Gibbon in Flora''s mother''s bordello in Oakland. With William''s help, Ned locates Louise and brings her back to San Francisco. Two years pass, the city has been rebuilt, and Louise is an executive in the department store. When she learns Tom has been unfaithful to Grace, she returns to Silver Bow and is reunited with both her sisters. Meanwhile, Frank returns to San Francisco, and although he is ill, he travels to Silver Bow with Tim when he learns Louise is there. At the ball on the night of the 1908 presidential election, Frank and Louise are reunited and decide to give their marriage another chance.'
'drama, adventure','Upon reaching retirement age, Colonel Cornelius Stockton (Harry Carey) is forced to leave the US military, accepting a job running the Trans-World Air Lines School of Aeronautics in Glendale, California. "Stag" Cahill (Richard Dix), an old friend from the war, is the pilot on the commercial airliner taking him to Glendale. The colonel asks him to join the school staff, but Stag would rather fly. When the colonel arranges for Stag, a reservist, to be recalled to active duty, he orders him to take the assignment as his assistant. Stag reluctantly complies. Stockton imposes military discipline on the civilian school. Two trainee mechanics are dismissed on the spot for being too slow. Stag warns his boss that he is pushing the men too hard, but Stockton disagrees. When Stockton inspects the newest batch of students, he is greatly displeased to find his own son, Ken (Chester Morris), among them. He would rather have him stay in the diplomatic service, but Ken wants to design aircraft. Ken and Stag become rivals for the affections of Meg Lawrence (Joan Fontaine), the cousin of fellow school pilot and friend "Fergie" Ferguson (Paul Guilfoyle). Despite only seeing Meg a couple of times, Stag impulsively proposes to her, only to find she has already agreed to marry Ken. Stag and Fergie are assigned a dangerous pioneering mapping flight from California to Alaska to Russia. Stockton pays them an awkward visit, observing that their aircraft could carry three. It is obvious that he wants his son to go along. Stag obliges. Ken has a falling out with Meg over his flying, and she breaks off their engagement. When Stag finds out, he proposes again; she accepts after he agrees this will be his last flight. They get married in Yuma immediately, although there is no honeymoon as the mapping expedition departs within hours. The flight becomes uncomfortably awkward after Stag informs Ken about his marriage. During the flight, the rudder becomes jammed, forcing an emergency landing in the Arctic wilderness to effect repairs. When they try to take off, the landing gear proves too weak, and the aircraft flips over. Ken and Stag are unharmed, but Fergie''s legs are broken. They devise a travois to carry Fergie on the 300 mile trek to the coast. When it becomes apparent that they will not make it with the injured man as a burden, Fergie insists they leave him behind, but they refuse. After Ken and Stag fall asleep, however, Fergie drags himself out of their tent to freeze to death. Eventually, Stag becomes too exhausted to go on. Ken is glad to leave him behind, but then recalls the time Stag stood up for him against his father after a near crash. He turns around, gets Stag to his feet and supports him as they trudge along. Shortly afterward, they stumble upon a settlement. When they return to the school, Meg rushes into Ken''s arms. Seeing how she feels, Stag tells her to get their marriage annulled.'
'comedy, crime','With the end of Prohibition, bootlegger Remy Marco ("Marko" in a sequence of the film) becomes a legitimate brewer; but he slowly goes broke because the beer he makes tastes terrible, and everyone is afraid to tell him so. After four years, with bank officers preparing to foreclose on the brewery, he retreats to his Saratoga summer home, only to find four dead mobsters who meant to ambush him, but were killed by their confederate whom they meant to betray. More and more problems begin to pop up in the life of the former bootlegger, as he has taken in a bratty orphan, and his daughter comes home with a fiancé that turns out to be a state cop.'
'adventure','Jim Kimmerlee owns a salmon cannery. He is pleased to see old friend Tyler Dawson, who has been away hunting seal. Also glad to see Tyler is his sweetheart, hotel owner Nicky Duval. Thieves have been stealing from fishing traps. Jim is determined to put a stop to it, engaging in a feud with Red Skain, a Russian fisherman who is suspected in the thefts. Di Turlon comes back to town after several years of big-city life. The adjustment to the fishing community is awkward at first, but Di comes around and becomes interested romantically in Jim. As he and others go after Red and the thieves, Jim is dismayed to learn that Tyler has become one of Red''s accomplices. Planning to catch the fish poachers in the act, Jim tries to spare Tyler by having Nicky sabotage his boat, but Tyler finds another vessel and joins Red at sea. Jim exchanges gunfire with the thieves, killing two and wounding Tyler. After being found and helped by his friend after Red has abandoned him, Tyler decides there is one more thing he must do. Close to death, he takes a boat back out, confronts Red, then blows a loud boat whistle that causes an avalanche, resulting in both men''s death. Jim speaks admiringly of his friend''s sacrificial act.'
'drama','Wallace Beery plays eternally inebriated ex-veterinarian Tom Terry. An aspiring jockey Mickey (Mickey Rooney) idolizes Tom, who reciprocates by passing along horsemanship advice to the kid. The film''s dramatic high point is where Tom, judgement benumbed by years of alcohol abuse, tries to pull himself long enough to perform a delicate operation on Mickey''s beloved horse Lady-Q. The film culminates in a big horse race, with Mickey and Tom laying their hopes on the "long shot."'
'drama','Mary, a girl of the streets, and Joe, a young thief, rob twenty thousand dollars and decide to spend all the money and then commit suicide. But Joe''s conscience speaks louder and he confesses the crime. He goes to prison knowing that Mary will wait for him.'
'historical','During a tennis match in Paris between Ferdinand de Lesseps (Tyrone Power) and his friend Vicomte Rene de Latour (Joseph Schildkraut), the enthusiastic admiration of Countess Eugenie de Montijo (Loretta Young) for de Lesseps attracts the attention of Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte (Leon Ames). Bonaparte sees to it that both she and de Lesseps are invited to his reception. At the party, a fortuneteller predicts that Eugenie will have a troubled life, but also wear a crown, and that de Lesseps will dig a ditch. Entranced by Eugenie''s beauty, Bonaparte arranges for his romantic rival to be assigned to a diplomatic post in Egypt, joining his father, Count Mathieu de Lesseps (Henry Stephenson), the Consul-General. De Lesseps impulsively asks Eugenie to marry him immediately, but she turns him down. In Egypt, de Lesseps befriends two people who will have a great influence on his life: Toni Pellerin (Annabella), a tomboy being raised by her grandfather, French Sergeant Pellerin (Sig Rumann); and Prince Said (J. Edward Bromberg), the indolent heir of his father, Mohammed Ali (Maurice Moskovitch), the Viceroy (ruler) of Egypt. Toni makes it clear that she has fallen in love with him, but de Lesseps still pines for Eugenie. Count de Lesseps leaves for France, leaving his son to take his place. One day, after a brief rainstorm in the desert, de Lesseps sees the water draining into the sea and comes up with the idea for the Suez Canal. He departs for Paris to raise the necessary funding; Toni goes along as well. He presents his proposal to Bonaparte, but is rejected. He is also disheartened to learn that Eugenie is now very close to Bonaparte. France is on the verge of civil war between Bonaparte and the French Assembly, led by Count de Lesseps and others. Eugenie persuades Ferdinand de Lesseps to pass along Bonaparte''s proposal asking the Assembly to disband, giving Bonaparte''s promise to reconvene it once the civil unrest has been defused. Despite their misgivings, the members of the Assembly agree, only to be betrayed and arrested. Bonaparte assumes the throne of the revived French Empire, just as Count de Lesseps had feared. The news causes the count to suffer a fatal stroke. Ferdinand de Lesseps is outraged, but Toni persuades him to do nothing. In return for de Lesseps'' help, Bonaparte (now Emperor Napoleon III), withdraws his objections to the canal, and construction commences under de Lesseps'' direction. The building of the canal progresses despite Turkish sabotage. However, Napoleon unexpectedly withdraws his support out of political necessity; he needs to appease Great Britain, and the British Prime Minister (George Zucco) is firmly opposed to the project. Prince Said bankrupts himself to keep the venture going, but it is not enough. De Lesseps goes to England to plead his case. The Prime Minister is unmoved, but the leader of the opposition, Benjamin Disraeli (Miles Mander), is enthusiastic about the project. Disraeli tells him to return to Egypt and pray that Disraeli wins the upcoming general election. He does, and funding is assured. As the canal nears completion, an enormous sandstorm threatens everything. When de Lesseps is knocked unconscious by flying debris, Toni rescues him by tying him to a wooden post, but is herself swept away and killed. De Lesseps finishes the canal and is honored by Eugenie, now Empress of France after her marriage to Napoleon III.[3]'
'comedy, musical','Broadway stars Gwen Marlowe (Jeanette MacDonald) and Ernest Lane (Nelson Eddy) are appearing in a 6-year run of Victor Herbert''s operetta Sweethearts (Ray Bolger dances the role of Hans). They are also very much in love after six years of marriage. Norman Trumpett (Reginald Gardiner) is a successful Hollywood talent scout under pressure to recruit Marlowe and Lane for his studio, which their Broadway producer Felix Lehman (Frank Morgan) is equally determined to prevent. The couple''s attempts to rest and be together are repeatedly thwarted by professional and personal demands made on their time, talents and money by Lehman and their own theatrical families - who also live with them. Frustrated beyond endurance and seduced by Trumpett''s idyllic (and false) description of working conditions in Hollywood, they decide to quit the show and take the Hollywood offer. (In guise of buying a new wardrobe for the trip Jeanette MacDonald models fashions of 1938.) This spells “the end” for the Broadway production, news so devastating that constantly feuding playwright Leo Kronk (Mischa Auer) and composer Oscar Engel (Herman Bing) stop fighting long enough for Lehman, Kronk and company to hatch a counter-plot. By convincing Marlowe that Lane is having an affair with his pretty secretary Kay Jordan (Florence Rice) they split-up the happy couple, putting an end to the Hollywood deal and allowing Lehman to mount two separate touring companies of the show, each with one star and one understudy. Delighted with the outcome, Engel produces Kronk''s new play - which closes in a week. From a Variety review of the play Marlowe and Lane realize they were tricked and join forces to confront Lehman.... but nonetheless resume the Broadway run of Sweethearts together.'
'comedy','Promoter Ed Hatch comes to the Ozarks with his slow-witted wrestler Joe Skopapoulos whom he pits against a hillbilly Amazon blacksmith, Sadie Horn. Joe falls in love with her and won''t fight, at least not until Sadie''s beau, Noah, shows up.'
'drama, musical','Mandy Jenkins (Cora Green), an African American cook for a wealthy white family in Birmingham, Alabama, discovers her husband Cornell is having an affair with Eloise Jackson (Hazel Diaz). When she confronts her husband and Eloise at a nightclub, a violent fight ensues. Eloise leaves Birmingham and relocates to the Harlem section of New York City, where she gets a job as a cabaret vocalist under the false name of Cora Smith. She is followed to Harlem by her husband, Lem, who becomes mixed up in the local crime scene. Mandy also arrives in New York, having left Cornell. She gets a job as the wardrobe mistress at the cabaret where Eloise is performing. When Eloise breaks her leg during a drunken fall, Mandy is recruited as the last-minute substitute and becomes a musical star as the revue is transferred to Broadway. Cornell, who is now destitute, reunites with Mandy and agrees never to cheat on her again.[1]'
'western, comedy','The film begins with a man on a stage who is the only cast member in the entire film who is of average height. The M.C. goes on to say that this film is the first of its kind and names it The Terror of Tiny Town. Then walks on stage the hero, Buck Larson who interrupts the emcee, telling him that the story is serious as he is the hero and will become the biggest star in Hollywood. The villain of the film, Bat Haines, comes on stage to say that he will be the biggest star in Hollywood. The two then proceed to argue and try to fight each other. The emcee breaks them up and lets the film proceed. The townspeople are at work while singing Laugh Your Troubles Away. Buck Larson’s father, Pop Larson, tells Buck that he wants him to go to the ranch and find out why the calves are disappearing. Bat Haines and his gang are seen roping the calves while riding Shetland ponies. Buck spots the cattle rustlers, and they run off before he can see them up close. The rustlers plant a branding iron with the initials of a neighboring rancher, Tex Preston. Meanwhile, Bat tells Tex that the Larsons are shooting his cattle. Later Tex goes to town to retrieve his niece, Nancy Preston, who was orphaned and will now live with her uncle. In the town saloon Bat tells the sheriff to stay out of the Larson and Preston feud or he will be sent back to the jail. He also reveals that he will rob a stagecoach carrying money. While Bat and his gang try to rob the carriage, Buck and his group see the attack and run Bat Haines off. Buck is able to stop the runaway carriage that is carrying Preston’s niece, Nancy. After Nancy gives Buck her thanks, Buck takes Nancy back into town. Buck and Nancy’s romance continues, but they have to meet in secret due to the family feud. Nancy and Buck are discovered by Pop Larson and are forced to stay away from each other. Buck chases after Nancy and together they ride away. Bat spies on the couple and tells Tex that they are together. Tex rides to meet them and sends Nancy home. Buck convinces Tex that someone else has stolen their property. As Tex rides away he is murdered by Bat who then tries to kill Buck, but fails. Bat tells Nancy that it was Buck who shot Tex. Bat forces the sheriff to arrest Buck for Tex’s murder. Buck confronts Nancy and convinces her he didn’t shoot Tex, and in the process figures out that it is Bat who is causing all the problems. Buck confronts Bat in the town’s saloon and punches him. The Sheriff then takes Buck into custody. Bat plans to take matters into his own hands and tries to have Buck hanged without a trial. Buck sends Nancy to the Larson ranch to round up people who will help Buck escape. As the angry mob closes in on Buck, the sheriff intervenes but is shot by Bat. Bat escapes through the window before the Larson crew arrives. Buck chases after Bat to his secret hideout. Meanwhile, the angry dance hall girl, Nita, plants dynamite in Bat’s cabin. She is angry after Bat neglected and hit her. Buck and Bat engage in a final duel inside the cabin. Buck is able to run out of the cabin at the last second, leaving Bat Haines behind. The cabin blows up as Bat prepares to shoot Buck in the back of the head. Buck and Nancy are finally able to share a kiss.'
'drama','Reckless test pilot Jim Lane (Clark Gable) is forced to land on a Kansas farm in his aircraft, the "Drake Bullet", where he meets Ann "Thursday" Barton (Myrna Loy). They spend the day together and fall in love. Once Jim''s best friend and mechanic, Gunner Morris (Spencer Tracy), arrives, Jim ignores Ann. To spur him, she gets engaged to her sweetheart. Jim leaves in the morning, but soon comes back for her. They quickly get married. Jim loses his job at Drake, when he clashes with the owner (Lionel Barrymore), and takes a job with another outfit, flying a very experimental aircraft. Ann soon finds out how dangerous her husband''s occupation is, but she promises Gunner that she will stick to her man. Jim wins the race, but Benson, the man Drake sends in Jim''s place, dies, leaving a wife and three children behind. Jim tries to reform his ways and begins by taking a job testing aircraft, even conducting dangerous flights as he wants to give Ann a real home. Gunner remains true to his friend.[N 1] One day, Gunner accompanies Jim on a test flight of a new bomber (a Y1B-17, an early Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress prototype). Upon reaching 30,000 feet, something goes wrong; the bomber goes into a spin and sandbags (substituting for the weight of bombs) break loose, pinning Gunner. Unwilling to bail out without his buddy, Jim manages to crash land, and pulls a badly injured Gunner out of the wreckage right before it burst into flames; but it is too late for Gunner. When Jim realizes the toll his job has taken on his wife, he gives it up and joins the United States Army Air Corps.'
'comedy, musical','Alice Fullerton is the 15-year-old daughter of newspaper publisher Bill. She becomes involved with a group of boy scouts, who is led by Ken Warren. Ken wants to put on a show to raise money in order to go to scout camp. Alice helps him out with giving him permission to use the family home to rehearse. She is very helpful to them and is eventually given permission to be a part of the act. Meanwhile, Bill offers the house to reporter Vince Bullit, who intends on finishing an article in peace and quiet. Alice fears for her new friends being kicked out of the house and decides to try to scare Vincent away. She tries to scare Vincent by pretending the house is haunted by evil ghosts. However, Vincent sees through the hoax and confronts Alice. She tells him the whole truth. Vincent sympathizes with them and decides to leave the house, but Bill doesn''t want him to. Alice changes her mind when she discovers Vincent is ill. She takes care of him and develops a crush. Ken, who has a crush on Alice, becomes jealous and tries to infuriate her by replacing her with singer Mary Lee. When an upcoming party is announced, Alice is determined to buy Vincent an expensive gift. She sells some of her stuff and buys a cigarette lighter. At the night of the party, she secretly borrows a dress from her mother to look older. She demands her to take her dress off. Enraged, Alice refuses to talk to anyone. Ken tells Vincent and Alice''s parents that she is in love with Vincent. Alice''s mother tries to discourage Alice, but she is determined to marry him. At the night of the party, Alice''s mother tells a lie to discourage her daughter. She tells Alice Vincent is married to a reporter called Grace Bristow. Alice finally gives up her crush and is allowed to take over the part in the show when Mary Lee becomes ill.'
'comedy, mystery','Bill Reardon''s (Melvyn Douglas) private detective agency is not making any money, so he decides to swallow his pride and return to work for the district attorney as a special investigator. His wife Sally (Joan Blondell), who persuaded him to start his own business, decides to keep the agency going herself. Sally is quickly hired by Lola Fraser (Mary Astor) to investigate Anne Calhoun (Frances Drake), a former girlfriend of Lola''s husband Walter (Lester Matthews) who has been in contact with him. At a nightclub owned by Nick Shane (Jerome Cowan), pretending to be out with Bill for pleasure rather than business, Sally witnesses Anne''s angry fiancé Jerry Marlowe (Robert Paige) threatening Walter, and before long Walter ends up dead. Jerry is the prime suspect. Mr. Ketterling (Pierre Watkin), Jerry''s employer, talks him into hiring Sally to prove him innocent. Shane could be behind it, she figures, but his body is found in the Reardons'' apartment, where Sally catches a whiff of a familiar perfume, Lola''s. Escaping police custody as a murder suspect, Sally gets Lola to sign a confession that she killed Shane in self defense by pretending to have found her handkerchief at the scene of the crime. However, Bill arrests Lola for hiring Shane to kill Walter to inherit all of his estate instead of getting a divorce settlement. When Shane started blackmailing her, she killed him.'
'comedy','Three Kansas sisters, owners of a chicken farm, dream of a different life. Pamela (Loretta Young) pretends to be a rich lady, Moira (Marjorie Weaver) her personal maid and Elizabeth (Pauline Moore) her personal secretary. When they inherit $5872, Pam decides to head to California in search of a rich husband, which will make it much easier for her sisters to do the same. Moira and Liz do not like the idea, but Pam talks them into it. When they check into a Santa Barbara hotel under their rehearsed roles, Steve Harrington (David Niven), who is taking a call at the front desk, is enchanted, but Pam thinks he is a gold digger, so she gives him a chilly reception. Later, Mike Brophy (Stuart Erwin), a hotel waiter, proves most informative about who is wealthy and who is not. Steve is. When Pam causes a boating accident, Steve is knocked into the water. She jumps in and pretends to be drowning, but discovers that he is in trouble himself, so she rescues him, punching him when he struggles too much. They are observed by an amused Van Dam Smith (Joel McCrea), another very rich young man. It turns out that Steve can swim; he just had trouble taking off his boots. Soon Pam has not one but two suitors. However, the money runs out, and the sisters cannot even pay their hotel bill in full. Pam pressures Moira into borrowing $100 from Mike under false pretenses. Fortunately, Van proposes. Pam accepts and confesses everything to him. He then informs her that he is deeply in debt. His rich grandfather left all his millions in trust for his zoos and animals. She still wants to marry him, but he insists that Steve is the husband for her. He then tells Steve that he is leaving town. Steve wastes no time in proposing to Pam; she accepts. Unfortunately, when she tells Moira the news, Mike overhears everything. Disgusted, he decides to tell Steve, but the women manage to lock him in the bathroom. They quickly pack and leave for Steve''s California ranch. Steve warns them that he has an odd but well-meaning sister, Miriam (Binnie Barnes). Miriam insists they go to a nightclub to celebrate. There she picks up Van Dam Smith at the bar. When she discovers that the others already know Van, she insists he stay at their place and be best man at the wedding, much to Pam''s discomfort. Meantime Mike has followed the women and has been hired as a "personal bartender" by Miriam. When they are alone, Mike tells Pam that he will put her "on probation" and that whether or not he tells Steve depends on how she behaves; he also confesses to loving Moira. Eventually, Van can stand it no longer. He tells Pam that her wedding cannot go on. Pam weakens and they embrace. Steve comes in at this point. After Pam tells him everything about herself and her sisters, Steve realizes he has fallen in love with Elizabeth. She accepts his proposal. Then they learn that Mike married Moira the day before, and that he is wealthy too, with a 100,000 acre ranch in Montana and 15,000 head of cattle. At the end, Pamela explains to Van that "it''s just that easy to fall in love with a poor man as a rich one" - the opposite of what she said to her sisters at the beginning.'
'crime','A ring of truck hijackers is organized by Joseph Valkus, run by Red Deegan and fronted by Rena Terry, a woman who pretends to be helpless, tricking truckers to trust her before their shipments are stolen. Out to bust up the racket, the FBI assigns agents Bob Anders and Tom Benson to go undercover. Pretending to be drivers, then thieves, they gain Valkus''s trust. Bob also meets and falls for Marjorie Rogers, a secretary who is totally unaware of the illegal activities. Bob is overheard tipping off the FBI to the next heist. He is beaten by Valkus''s men, but Marjorie manages to write and deliver a note that brings federal agents to the rescue.'
'comedy, adventure','Union Newsreel reporter Chris Hunter (Clark Gable) is sneakier and has fewer scruples than his rivals in war-torn China. When the Japanese do not oblige with a convenient aerial attack to film, Chris fakes one with a model aircraft with his cameraman José Estanza (Leo Carrillo). Outraged when he finds out, Chris'' main competitor, Atlas Newsreel''s Bill Dennis (Walter Pidgeon) decides to do the same, having his aviator friend Alma Harding (Myrna Loy) fly in "serum" for an imaginary cholera outbreak.[Note 1] Chris finds out and swoops in to film her landing. José, however, drives too close to the aircraft, causing it to crash and burst into flames. Chris rescues Alma, but when he starts to go back for the serum, she has to admit the truth, telling him that it is a fake. Chris piles on lie after lie to romance Alma, even pretending to get fired by his boss, "Gabby" MacArthur (Walter Connolly), for burning the footage. Chris convinces her to work for Union. She reveals that she needs the money to mount a search for her brother Harry, lost in the Amazon jungle and given up for dead by everyone else. They travel to New York (where Gabby is eagerly awaiting the landing footage Chris is secretly bringing). Bill follows to protect the woman he has loved for years from his unscrupulous competitor. However, the whole charade is eventually revealed, discrediting Chris, Bill and Alma. Both reporters are fired, and people begin to question whether Alma''s brother is really missing. Chris'' budding romance with Alma is quashed when she learns of his numerous lies. Ashamed, Chris and Bill hock their equipment and have José pretend to be a generous, kind-hearted South American plantation owner. He presents Alma with nearly $8,000 and a compass supposedly from Harry''s aircraft. He tells her one of his workers brought it to him. In reality, Chris etched a fake serial number on it. Alma buys a floatplane and supplies, and sets out for South America. Both Chris and Bill follow. They eventually find a native who claims to know where Harry is. Despite José''s warning that the man is a follower of voodoo and means them no good, Alma is convinced when the native produces Harry''s watch. To protect Alma, Chris and José set out on their own with their guide in a canoe. As they near the village, the native escapes, though José shoots and wounds him. Chris spots an ill white man through his binoculars. José suspects the natives intend to sacrifice him that night, so, using their camera equipment, Chris makes the frightened natives believe he is a powerful magician or god. He and José tend to the unconscious man. Despite a tense moment when their former guide shows up and denounces them, Chris maintains a tenuous control of the situation. When he hears Alma flying by, he has the natives show the wreckage of Harry''s aircraft. She and Bill land nearby. Chris disguises himself and his cameraman as witch doctors, and film Alma and Bill without their knowledge. The natives finally turn hostile. Alma and Bill get Harry into their aircraft, but when Chris and José try to board it (still in disguise), Bill hits Chris. The aircraft takes off, leaving Chris and José to paddle for their lives. When Alma, Bill and Harry return to New York, they are welcomed by reporters. However, "Pearly" Todd (Henry Kolker), Bill''s annoyed boss, wants to know how Chris got footage of Harry''s dramatic rescue and he did not. Realizing that Chris must have been the helpful witch doctor, Alma reconciles with Chris (in the midst of a dangerous police shootout).'
'drama','Set during the American Civil War, The Toy Wife tells the story of Frou-Frou, a 16-year-old coquette. She has been in France to attend a prestigious school, but is now returning to her family plantation in Louisiana. Craving to go to New Orleans, she fakes a toothache to visit a dentist there. She is chaperoned by Madame Vallaire, but soon ditches her to attend a ball. There, she meets Vaillare''s son Andre, a wastral whom she is immediately attracted to. After returning home, Frou-Frou and her older sister Louise befriend Georges Sartoris, a family friend who received a knife wound after prosecuting a white man for killing a black slave. Louise is in love with him, but encourages her sister to marry him after finding out Georges is more interested in Frou-Frou. As suggested, Frou-Frou and Georges marry. Five years later, their four-year-old son celebrates his birthday. Georges is worried his wife is after all those years still youthful and flirtatious. Fearing she would be unable to give up her life style to become attached to the household, Georges asks Louise to teach her sister how to be a wife. Things don''t work out as planned and eventually it is Louise who is doing all the chores. Meanwhile, Frou-Frou becomes reacquainted with Andre while rehearsing a new play she will star in. At home, she realises her sister is taking over her life, winning over the heart of both Georges and her son. Outraged, she confronts Louise and soon elopes with Andre. Six months later, Frou-Frou''s father Victor is informed by Madame Vallaire that his daughter and Andre are currently living in New York City. Distraught, Victor collapses and dies the same day. Meanwhile, Frou-Frou and Andre are living in poverty due to Andre''s gambling debts. Her father''s will leaves her with half of his plantation, but she forfeits her share to her son Georgie. When she and Andre return to New Orleans, jealous ex-husband Georges challenges Andre to a duel. Everybody suspects Andre will win, but he is shot and killed. It is hinted that Andre had purposely chosen to be the loser in the duel, because he chose pistols as the weapons, rather than his actual preference of swords. Time goes by and Frou-Frou is now a poor woman, dying of pneumonia. One evening, while praying in church, she is noticed by Louise. She makes Georges realize that Frou-Frou become the woman she was for him,[clarification needed] explaining that was what he really wanted. Touched, he visits Frou-Frou and finally allows her to see her son again. He takes her back home and is told there by Frou-Frou he should marry Louise. Soon after, Frou-Frou dies.'
'comedy','Former police detective Sam Wye (Fredric March) is on the trail of socialite Kay Kerrigan (Joan Bennett) who is accused of fatally shooting millionaire cad Thomas Bruhme (Sidney Blackmer). Kay has taken a ship to the South Seas followed by Sam, Sam''s secretary Jean Livingstone (Ann Sothern) as well as police detectives Ben "Homer" Blodgett (Ralph Bellamy) and George Faulkner (Robert Elliott). Along the way, through various adventures, Sam and Kay fall in love, as do Homer and Jean. Sam eventually determines that the actual killer was a jealous husband whose wife was having an affair with Bruhme. Kay is thus cleared and free to marry Sam.'
'comedy','Two convicts, St. Louis (Spencer Tracy) and Dannemora Dan (Warren Hymer) befriend another convict named Steve (Humphrey Bogart), who is in love with woman''s-prison inmate Judy (Claire Luce). Steve is paroled, promising Judy that he will wait for her release five months later. He returns to his hometown in New England and his mother''s home. However, he is followed there by Judy''s former "employer", the scam artist Frosby (Gaylord Pendleton). Frosby threatens to expose Steve''s prison record if the latter refuses to go along with a scheme to defraud his neighbors. Steve goes along with it until Frosby defrauds his mother. Fortunately, at this moment St. Louis and Dannemora Dan have broken out of prison and come to Steve''s aid, taking away a gun he planned to use on the fraudster, instead stealing back bonds stolen by Frosby. They return to prison in time for its annual baseball game against a rival penitentiary. The film closes with St. Louis on the pitcher''s mound with his catcher, Dannemora Dan, presumably ready to lead their team to victory.[1][2]'
'drama, adventure','This film is about a man named Bill Cardigan (Wayne Morris) who owns a large portion of the California Redwoods. Howard Fallon (Charles Bickford) along with Hendricks (John Litel), Lee Roberts (Claire Trevor), Ed Morell (Jack La Rue) and Fingers McCarthy (Frank McHugh) go to California and try to procure Bill''s land. Howard finds out about Bill''s large debt that he owes to the bank and now has a way to get ownership of the forest. Accidentally the claims Howard had towards the land get destroyed in a fire giving Bill a chance to reclaim his ownership. Now all Bill has to do it get his lumber cut and shipped within six weeks. Howard does everything in his power to stop Bill including destroying the railroad, damming the river and even locks him along with Lee in the caboose of the train and sends it towards the destroyed track. Fallon gets captured and surrenders to Bill giving him back his land.'
'comedy','Vivacious Lady is a story of love at first sight between a young botany professor named Peter Morgan Jr. (Stewart) and a nightclub singer named Francey (Rogers). The film also has comedic elements, including repeatedly frustrated attempts by the newlywed couple to find a moment alone with each other. The story begins when Peter is sent to Manhattan to retrieve his playboy cousin Keith (Ellison) and immediately falls in love with Francey. After a whirlwind one-day courtship, Peter and Francey get married, and they and Keith return to the Morgan family''s home, where Peter teaches at the university run by his father Peter Morgan Sr. (Coburn). Mr. Morgan is known for being a proud, overbearing man, so Peter is afraid to tell him about the marriage. When they arrive, Mr. Morgan and Peter''s high-society fiancée Helen (Mercer) initially take Francey for another of Keith''s girlfriends. While Peter decides how to approach his father with the news, Francey stays at a women-only hotel, and Peter and Keith introduce her as a new botany student. Peter mentions Francey to his father twice, but on both occasions, Mr. Morgan interrupts and ignores his son, and when Peter becomes insistent, his apparently ailing mother (Bondi) has a flare-up of her heart condition, making any further conversation impossible. For his third attempt, Peter decides to announce the marriage to his parents at the university''s student-faculty prom. Keith brings Francey to the prom as his own guest, and Francey, still posing as a student, develops a friendly rapport with Mrs. Morgan, but gets into a nasty brawl with Helen in which Francey accidentally punches Peter''s father. Peter says nothing at the prom, but blurts the news to his father just as Mr. Morgan is about to give an important speech, resulting in another argument and another flare-up of Mrs. Morgan''s heart condition. This prevents Mrs. Morgan from learning who Francey is, but she accidentally finds out from Francey herself during a conversation in Francey''s apartment. Mrs. Morgan accepts the news happily, and admits to Francey that she pretends to have heart trouble any time her husband gets into an argument, but Mr. Morgan demands that Francey leave Peter, threatening to fire him if she doesn''t. Francey agrees to leave, but the incident releases thirty years of marital frustration in Mrs. Morgan, who also decides to leave her husband. Francey tells Peter she will leave him unless he can change his father''s mind before her train departs. Peter''s solution is to threaten the family with disgrace by getting drunk and otherwise misbehaving until his father relents, even if it costs him his job. Peter passes out before he can reach the train, which departs with both Francey and Mrs. Morgan aboard, but Mr. Morgan, having finally yielded to the combined pressure of his son and wife, stops the train by driving ahead of it with Peter and parking the car on the track. Both marriages are saved, and Peter and Francey finally have their honeymoon on the train.'
'comedy, drama','A quintet of New York City chorus girls plan a reunion for the one-year anniversary of their show''s closing. They discover the different paths their careers and lives have taken.'
'western','After being told by his ranch boss Lynn that she plans to sell her ranch to finance a move east, Jack is framed for cattle rustling by Barnes, the man set to buy the ranch. With the help of his pal Buzz, Jack escapes the noose and the two set out to clear Jack''s name. In addition, Jack is suspicious of the reason why Barnes wants to own Lynn''s ranch in the first place.'
'drama','On a dreary, cold and snowy day in a small town in 1919 Indiana, a peddler named Hannah Parmalee (Bainter) appears at the door of a kind couple, Paul Ward (Rains) and his wife, Marcia (Johnson), selling apple peelers. Asked by Mrs. Ward to come inside and warm up, Hannah sees they are struggling financially and are in need of some domestic help. She offers her services and becomes their cook and housekeeper for room and board. Mr. Ward, a science teacher by day, is an inventor by night attempting to create something that will provide sufficient money for Marcia, their teenaged daughter Sally (Granville) and their new baby, to have some luxuries in life. Hannah, who is extremely wise and helpful, comes up with some good ideas. She persuades Ward to sell old and useless furniture to raise money and make a place for his work in the basement. Their teenaged neighbor, Peter Trimble (Cooper), is one of Ward''s students and the son of the richest man in town, Sam Trimble (O''Neill). Hannah is very pleased to know Peter and to be a part of his life. In her devotion to him, however, she is never able to indulge the motherly instinct she feels, except in an indirect way. He is very good at science and, after Hannah suggests that he set a good example for the boy, Ward asks young Trimble to become his assistant. Sally develops a crush on Peter. Ward''s invention, an "iceless icebox," is unintentionally revealed by Peter to local mechanics Joe Ellis (William Pawley) and his brother Bill (Edward Pawley). When the Ellis brothers steal it and have it patented, Peter feels so bad about what he did that he lies when Ward asks him about it. In the meantime, Sally becomes ill with pneumonia. Hannah persuades Ward that it is best to "turn the other cheek" and to give young Peter another chance. Ward then develops a new and better feature for his invention, which is on its way to becoming a great electric refrigerator for homes. Sally recovers and she and her mother, Marcia, leave on a trip with the baby. Another crisis arises, however, when Thomas Bradford (James Stephenson), a wealthy businessman from Chicago, arrives to discuss financing of Ward''s invention. Hannah reveals to Ward that Peter Trimble is her son who she was forced to give up all those years ago because he was born out of wedlock. Sam Trimble adopted him after his own baby died, but Bradford is the boy''s real father. When Bradford finds out that Peter is his son, he wants to claim him. Hannah, however, persuades him to not reveal the truth to Peter. The movie ends as Hannah, satisfied with the kind of young man her son has become, and that he is on the right path in life, leaves with Peter believing that his adoptive parents are his biological parents. She walks off into the wintry landscape.'
'crime','Hardly anybody at the Swing Swing Club is fond of the singer, Gail Preston, and therefore aren''t particularly upset when she is murdered there. But it is Inspector Tom Kellogg''s job to find out what happened and who did it. Suspicion at first falls on a man named Owen, but when he, too, is found dead, bandleader Swing Traynor becomes the prime suspect. Discovering that someone killed Preston by rigging a gun to a spotlight, Kellogg gathers all the suspects into a room and trains the spotlight on each.'
'crime','A district attorney (William) realizes that his own wife (Patrick) might be having an affair while he is prosecuting a cuckolded murderer.'
'drama, romance','Unhappy in his marriage, attorney Stephen Holland decides to get a divorce from his pretentious wife Cynthia, despite concern over how it will affect Ellen, their young daughter. Cynthia sets out to make her ex-husband''s life miserable. She first deceives Stephen''s mother into siding with her, Mrs. Holland suggesting that Stephen let the little girl remain solely in Cynthia''s custody for a while. Stephen must leave on a work-related trip to Washington, D.C., so he reluctantly agrees. At a reception for his friend Senator Kingsley, he meets Maris Kent and becomes smitten. They are soon married and move back to Stephen''s hometown, but Cynthia conspires to ruin their lives any way she can, even having friends snub Maris at the local country club. Away with her daughter at a remote inn, Cynthia schemes to make Stephen abandon his wife by pretending that their daughter Ellen is seriously ill and needs him. Stephen''s wife and mother decide to accompany him to the inn, where all three discover a carefree Cynthia dancing while Ellen is perfectly fine. Cynthia is revealed to all what kind of person she is.'
'comedy, drama','A cocky American athlete named Lee Sheridan (Robert Taylor) receives a scholarship to attend Cardinal College, Oxford University in 1937. At first, Lee is reluctant to go to the college owing to his father Dan''s (Lionel Barrymore) limited income, but he finally does attend. Once in England, Lee brags about his athletic triumphs to Paul Beaumont (Griffith Jones), Wavertree (Robert Coote), and Ramsey (Peter Croft) on the train to Oxford. Annoyed, they trick Lee into getting off the train at the wrong stop. Lee, however, does make his way to Oxford where the students attempt to trick him again, this time into thinking that he is getting a grand reception. Seeing through the deception, he follows the prankster impersonating the Dean and after chasing him is thrown off and ends up kicking the real Dean of Cardinal (Edmund Gwenn) before retreating. This begins a contentious relationship between them when Lee reports to apologize. Lee considers leaving Oxford but stays on after being convinced by Scatters (Edward Rigby), his personal servant. Lee meets Elsa Craddock (Vivien Leigh), a married woman who "helps" the new campus students, and starts a relationship with Paul Beaumont''s sister Molly (Maureen O''Sullivan). Lee makes the track team by outpacing other runners while wearing a cap and gown. Just when he begins to fit in, he is hazed for refusing to rest during a crucial relay race at a track meet and pushing his replacement Paul out of the way in his zeal to win. In a fit of anger, Lee goes to a pub, which students are forbidden to frequent, to confront Paul, finding him in a private booth with Elsa. He starts a fight with Paul but Wavertree warns them of the Bullers coming. Lee and Paul run and when they are almost caught by one of the Bullers, Lee punches him. Paul is called before the Dean, fined and warned for hitting the Buller. He is scorned for saying it was Lee who punched him and Lee is soon the favorite of Paul''s old friends. Molly begins to see him again, but Lee still feels poor for what has happened between her and Paul. Lee begins rowing for Oxford University Boat Club and in the bumps race for Cardinal''s boat club, tries to make amends to Paul after winning a race, but Paul rejects the offer of friendship. Though his offer of friendship was rejected, Lee still helps Paul by hiding Elsa in his own room when Elsa is looking for Paul. The Dean catches the two of them together and expels Lee from Oxford. Lee''s father comes for the races having not heard of Lee''s expulsion from Oxford University. When Lee tells him that he had been having an affair with Elsa, Dan believes he is lying. Judging from Lee''s letters about Molly he feels that Lee could not possibly have had an affair with Elsa due to the way he feels about Molly. Dan meets with Molly and the two devise a plan to get Lee back into college. Dan meets with Elsa at the bookstore and convinces her to talk to the Dean. After flirting with the Dean and telling him that Lee was only hiding her from Wavertree, Lee is allowed back into Oxford and Wavertree, who has spent the entire story trying to be expelled so he can come into an inheritance, receives to his disappointment only a minor punishment. Lee and Paul make amends and win the boat race.'
'crime, film noir','Mr Morris runs a department store which specialises in hiring former inmates who want to assimilate into civilian life. Two of his employees, Joe and Helen, have fallen in love. Joe is planning on leaving for California. They decide to get married.'
'comedy','A successful banker, Anthony P. Kirby (Edward Arnold), has just returned from Washington, D.C., where he was effectively granted a government-sanctioned munitions monopoly, which will make him very rich. He intends to buy up a 12-block radius around a competitor''s factory to put him out of business, but there is one house that is a holdout to selling. Kirby instructs his real estate broker, John Blakely (Clarence Wilson), to offer a huge sum for the house, and if that is not accepted, to cause trouble for the family. Meanwhile Grandpa Vanderhof (Lionel Barrymore) convinces a banker named Poppins to pursue his dream of making animated toys. Kirby''s son, Tony (James Stewart), a vice president in the family company, has fallen in love with a company stenographer, Alice Sycamore (Jean Arthur). When Tony proposes marriage, Alice is worried that her family would be looked upon poorly by Tony''s rich and famous family. In fact, Alice is the only relatively normal member of the eccentric Sycamore family, led by Vanderhof. Unbeknownst to the players, Alice''s family lives in the house that will not sell out. Kirby and his wife (Mary Forbes) strongly disapprove of Tony''s choice for marriage. Before she accepts, Alice forces Tony to bring his family to become better acquainted with their future in-laws. But when Tony purposely brings his family on the wrong day, the Sycamore family is caught off-guard and the house is in disarray. As the Kirbys are preparing to leave after a rather disastrous meeting, the police arrive in response to the printed threats on Ed Carmichael''s flyers, and when the fireworks in the basement go off, they arrest everyone in the house. Held up in the drunk tank preparing to see the night court judge, Mrs. Kirby repeatedly insults Alice and makes her feel unworthy of her son, while Grandpa explains to Kirby the importance of having friends and that despite all the wealth and success in business, "you can''t take it with you". At the court hearing, the judge (Harry Davenport) allows for Grandpa and his family to settle the charges for disturbing the peace and making illegal fireworks by assessing a fine, which Grandpa''s friends pitch in to pay for. He repeatedly asks why the Kirbys were at the Vanderhof house. When Grandpa says it was to talk over selling the house, Alice has an outburst and says it was because she was engaged to Tony but is spurning him because of how poorly she has been treated by his family. This causes a sensation in the papers, and Alice flees the city. With Alice gone, Grandpa decides to sell the house, thus meaning the whole section of the town must vacate in preparation for building a new factory. Now, the Kirby companies merge, creating a huge fluctuation in the stock market. When Kirby''s competitor, Ramsey (H. B. Warner), dies after confronting him for being ruthless and a failure of a man, Kirby has a realization he is heading for the same fate, and decides to leave the meeting concerning signing the contracts. As the Vanderhofs are moving out of the house, Tony tries to track down Alice. Kirby arrives and talks privately with Grandpa, sharing his realization. Grandpa responds by inviting him to play "Polly Wolly Doodle" on the harmonica that he gave him. The two let loose with the rest of the family joining in the merriment, and with Alice taking Tony back. Later, at the dinner table, Grandpa says grace for the Sycamore family and the Kirbys, revealing that Kirby has sold back the houses on the block.'
'drama','After graduating from medical school, Dr. James Kildare (Lew Ayres) returns to his small home town, where his proud parents Stephen (Samuel S. Hinds) and Martha Kildare (Emma Dunn) and childhood friend Alice Raymond (Lynne Carver) expect him to join his father in his medical practice. However, he is more ambitious, though he is unsure what he wants to do. He has accepted a job as an intern at Blair General, a large New York City hospital. He and the other new interns are being greeted by the hospital''s administrator, Dr. Carew (Walter Kingsford), when the famous wheelchair-bound diagnostician Dr. Leonard Gillespie (Lionel Barrymore) bursts in and sizes up the newcomers. When Gillespie demands that the interns diagnose him on the spot, only Kildare takes up his challenge, prognosticating that he has a melanoma on his hand and a year to live. When Kildare hedges before Gillespie''s gruff, Gillespie dismisses interest in him. Later, Kildare is assigned ambulance duty with attendant Joe Wayman (Nat Pendleton). His first call is a man who has passed out in a bar. Discarding the obvious conclusion of drunkenness, Kildare suspects the man has a serious medical problem. When Kildare has to respond to a second, more urgent call, he orders the skeptical Wayman to give the man oxygen all the way to the hospital. Wayman disregards his order and the man dies as a result. Kildare later takes the blame rather than have Wayman lose his job. Kildare then attends to Barbara Chanler (Jo Ann Sayers), a young suicide victim. Despite finding no signs of life, Kildare refuses to give up and finally succeeds in reviving her. Barbara Chanler turns out to be the sole child and heiress of extremely wealthy Robert Chanler (Pierre Watkin). Highly respected psychiatrist Dr. Lane-Porteus (Monty Woolley) diagnoses schizophrenia. Kildare, based on a short conversation he had with Barbara, is sure that she was driven to attempt suicide for more ordinary reasons. However, when Kildare refuses to divulge what she told him in strictest confidence, Carew suspends him. From a chance comment by Barbara''s concerned fiance, Jack Hamilton (Truman Bradley), Kildare is able to piece the clues together. After quarreling with Hamilton, Barbara had gone to a nightclub alone, where she had started drinking heavily. A man took her upstairs to a private room, and that''s all she remembered of the night. She was found by a policeman wandering the streets and taken home. Fear of what might have happened during her blackout made her try to take her own life. When Kildare goes to Gillespie for advice, the older man broadly hints that he should ignore hospital rules. Kildare sneaks in to see Barbara to reassure her that nothing disgraceful happened. The man at the nightclub had recognized her and, fearful of what her rich father would do if he took advantage of her condition, he had simply dumped her on the street. Kildare then coaches Barbara on how to act so that Lane-Porteus does not have her confined to a mental institution. Unaware of these developments, the hospital board fires Kildare for insubordination. He tells his parents and Alice, who have come to see him, that he is ready to become his father''s partner. However, Gillespie has other ideas. All along, he had been testing Kildare. Now that he is sure of Kildare''s integrity, competence and most of all courage of convictions, Gillespie hires the young man as his assistant, to pass along as much as possible before he dies of what Kildare had correctly diagnosed.'
'comedy, drama','A family of con artists led by "Colonel" Anthony "Sahib" Carleton (Roland Young) and his wife "Marmy" (Billie Burke) are working the French Riviera in search of wealthy potential mates for their daughter George-Anne (Janet Gaynor) and son Richard (Douglas Fairbanks, Jr.). Sahib, a former actor, passes himself off as an officer who served with the Bengal Lancers in India. George-Anne flirts with her Scottish suitor, Duncan Macrae (Richard Carlson), whom she dismisses when she learns that he is not rich. Richard has managed to get himself engaged to the wealthy, but rather plain Adela Jennings. Meanwhile, Sahib cheats her American senator father out of a large sum of money at poker. The local police find out about the Carleton family, provide them with complimentary train tickets to London, courtesy of Mr. Jennings, and order them to leave the country. On the train, George-Anne meets a lonely old spinster named Miss Ellen Fortune (Minnie Dupree), who inherited a fortune from her former fiancé, with whom she had quarreled in her youth. The kindhearted Miss Fortune invites George-Anne and her family to her first-class compartment, and the penniless family eagerly accepts, hoping to swindle her out of some of her money. While Miss Fortune treats them to dinner, the train derails, and they manage to extricate the old woman from the wreckage. Grateful for their actions, she invites them to stay with her at her London mansion. Seeing an opportunity to make their way into Miss Fortune''s will, they treat her with kindness and spend evenings with her. Sahib and Richard also go out looking for jobs in order to persuade both her and her suspicious lawyer, Felix Anstruther (Henry Stephenson), that they can be trusted. Meanwhile, Duncan looks up George-Anne, whom he still loves, despite her repeated rejections and her family''s continued shady activities. He finds Sahib a job as a Flying Wombat car salesman. The initially reluctant colonel is soon applying his con artist skills so successfully that he is promoted to manager of the London branch. Richard also takes a job, as a mail clerk at an engineering firm when he sees lovely Leslie Saunders (Paulette Goddard) working there. She is also attracted to him, despite his completely frank admissions about his flawed character. Soon he is planning to take night courses in engineering. Gradually the two men begin to find the value of honest work and start to feel guilty about taking advantage of Miss Fortune. George-Anne and Marmy also honestly care about the old woman, but all four believe the others are still only after the inheritance. Miss Fortune eventually learns about the Carletons'' background from Anstruther, her lawyer, but she reacts with great compassion. She informs George-Anne that she is going to have a new will written, leaving everything to the Carletons. At a dinner party, Miss Fortune collapses, leaving the family legitimately concerned for the health of the woman who has changed all of their lives. Gathered in worried watch outside her sick room, they dismiss Anstruther''s news that her fortune has diminished and they will inherit nothing. Marmy, in her grief, exclaims they do not want her money. Anstruther then informs them she will even lose her house. Marmy, Sahib and Richard retort she will never lack for a home or their care, much to Anstruther and George-Anne''s surprise. Sometime later, a recovered Miss Ellen drives Anstruther uncomfortably fast in her Flying Wombat to the Carletons'' house, where she now lives. George-Anne is married to Duncan, and Richard to Leslie.'
'crime drama','District attorney Steve Donegan (Walter Pidgeon) an all-too-efficient district attorney who has sent dozens of criminals to prison finds himself framed on a bribery charge and winds up in prison himself.[2]'
'mystery','The picture begins with Moriarty and Holmes verbally sparring on the steps outside the Old Bailey where Moriarty has just been acquitted on a charge of murder due to lack of evidence. Holmes remarks, "You''ve a magnificent brain, Moriarty. I admire it. I admire it so much I''d like to present it, pickled in alcohol, to the London Medical Society." "It would make an impressive exhibit," replies Moriarty. Holmes and Watson are visited at 221B Baker Street by Ann Brandon (Ida Lupino). She tells him that her brother Lloyd has received a strange note: a drawing of a man with an albatross hanging around his neck, identical to one received by her father just before his brutal murder ten years before. Holmes deduces that the note is a warning and rushes to find Lloyd Brandon. He is too late, as Lloyd has been murdered by being strangled and having his skull crushed. Holmes, disguised as a music-hall entertainer, attends a garden party, where he correctly believes an attempt will be made on Ann''s life. Hearing her cries from a nearby park, he captures her assailant, who turns out to be Gabriel Mateo, out for revenge on the Brandons for the murder of his father by Ann''s father in a dispute over ownership of their South American mine. His murder weapon was a bolas. Mateo also reveals that it was Moriarty who urged him to seek revenge. Holmes realises that Moriarty is using the case as a distraction from his real crime, a crime that will stir the British Empire: an attempt to steal the Crown Jewels. Holmes rushes to the Tower of London, where, during a struggle, Moriarty falls, presumably to his death. In the end, Ann is married and Holmes tries to shoo a fly by playing his violin, only to have Watson swat it with his newspaper remarking, "Elementary, my dear Holmes, elementary."[3]'
'comedy','Three young couples, all having financial struggles, decide to risk getting married. Joe Tucker and new wife Susie begin their new life living in a trailer. Slats Warwick is in a continuous quarrel with bride Jennifer, whose allowance from her parents is keeping them afloat. The couple having the hardest time is John and Kay Gregory, a pre-med student whose studies barely give him time to juggle part-time jobs and a singer who finds work in a nightclub, but hasn''t yet broken the news to her husband that she''s expecting a baby.'
'western','In the southwestern Pennsylvania region, of colonial America, in the 1760s, colonial distaste and disapproval of the British government is starting to surface. Many local colonists have been killed by Native Americans, who are armed with rifles supplied by white traders. Local adventurer, James Smith (John Wayne) and his followers complain to British officials, pressuring them to make it illegal to trade weapons to the Indians. Trader Ralph Callender (Brian Donlevy) and other businessmen are not happy with the new law, as it cuts into their profit. They continue to trade with the local Native American population, hiding rifles and rum inside military supply trains. When the British authorities fail to do anything to prevent this, James Smith organizes his men and heads out to intercept the wagon train. Smith''s spirited and bold girlfriend, Janie McDougall (Claire Trevor), assists him and his men in posing as Indians to intercept the gun shipments. Captain Swanson, a British army officer, is sent to protect the wagon train at all costs, following a complaint lodged by Callender, that Smith and his men intend to rob the wagon train, while neglecting to state that the train contains guns and liquor. Captain Swanson considers the involvement of Smith and his men as a revolt against his authority, and in retaliation, he jails more than half of the local colonists, holding them without trial. This sets Smith and Swanson on a collision course.'
'comedy','After his new wife''s family convinces her to leave him, attorney Dan Preston leaves his law practice and sets off to travel around the country as a vagabond. When he returns home he finds his house rented by a novelist, Shirley Haddon. He adopts a mongrel dog, Picardy Max, and sets out to avenge himself against his ex-wife''s family by entering Max into dog shows to compete against their pedigreed animals. Preston also begins a romantic relationship with Haddon. Robert Mabrey, Preston''s ex-brother-in-law, takes great stock in his dog winning the competition, and when he learns that Max is quite impressive in his training, he begins to get a bit concerned. When a local bully is killed by a wild animal, Mabrey sees an opportunity to rid himself of the competition, and blames the attack on Max. Faced with the impending execution of the dog, Preston resumes his legal robes and defends the dog in court. During the hearing it is discovered that the man was killed by an escaped wildcat from a visiting circus, and Max is vindicated. When Marian Mabrey, Preston''s ex-wife, is kidnapped, Max tracks the culprits down and she is saved by Preston and Max. Preston and Robert Mabrey reconcile, and Preston and Haddon begin a life together.'
'crime','Charlie Hartman is part of a gang bossed by a criminal named Gibbs that pulls off a daring robbery in broad daylight. Charlie''s honest sister Jane ends up being taken hostage but manages to convey her dire need for help to a truck driver, Tony Andrews. Tony attempts to help save Jane and, if possible, her brother as well. Pretending to help Gibbs and the thieves, he leaves clues for the police to follow. One of the crooks, Blue, is killed, after which another, Randall, attempts to escape after Charlie''s guilty conscience causes a change of heart. Tony is able to free Jane from the clutches of Gibbs, after which he and Jane collect the reward and begin to plan a new life together.'
'comedy','Andy Hardy (Mickey Rooney) is upset that his girlfriend, Polly Benedict (Ann Rutherford), had fallen for Ensign Charles Copley (Robert Kent). Soon, Andy develops a crush on his drama teacher. After Andy''s play is chosen for the school''s annual production, he seizes the opportunity to spend time with his spring time crush. Andy''s dad, Judge Hardy (Lewis Stone), knows that his son is destined for heartache, but he decides to let Andy find out for himself how young love can be.'
'drama','Gabe Ryan (Frankie Thomas) is released from reform school and it taken to a new house by his sister Joy (Ann Sheridan) to start a new life where no one knows of his past. However, Gabe immediately joins a local gang, the Beale Street Termites, where he meets up with William Kroner (Bernard Nedell), a local gangster. William accuses him of starting a fire at one of his properties, and Alfred Martino (Eduardo Ciannelli), the actual arsonist, uses this opportunity to frame Gabe for any fire. He decides to torch one of his apartment complexes so that he can collect the insurance money. Unfortunately, one of the kids, Sleepy (Bernard Punsly) is killed in the fire. Patrick Remson (Ronald Reagan), the Assistant District Attorney, tries to prove Gabe''s innocence. His motives are not only to prove Gabe''s innocence, but also to get closer to his sister. Joy has devoted her life to helping Gabe and neglects her other interests, which was rallying against city government corruption, which pleases Martino. However, it is all for naught as Gabe is found guilty and sentenced to prison. The other boys, led by Billy (Billy Halop), decide to do something to help Gabe. Billy runs for "boy mayor" and wins. He has Kroner arrested for a small infraction and sends him to jail. While there, Billy and the rest of the gang interrogate him and try to make him admit that Gabe is innocent. He does not cave in, that is until he is shown proof that his accomplices, Martino and the fire chief, are planning to skip the country. He confesses and Martino and the chief are arrested and sent to prison.'
'crime','In this adaptation of Dashiell Hammett''s "The Farewell Murder",[3] Nick (William Powell) and Nora (Myrna Loy) Charles are back in New York with Asta and a new arrival - Nicky Jr. They are invited by Colonel Burr MacFay (C. Aubrey Smith) to spend the weekend at his house on Long Island. McFay, the former business partner of Nora''s father, and the administrator of her fortune, desperately wants Nick to put his well-known detective skills to work, as he has been receiving threats from Phil Church (Sheldon Leonard), a very shady character. When MacFay is killed, Church seems to be the obvious suspect. However, Nick is skeptical. He suspects there is something far more complicated going on. MacFay''s housekeeper, his adopted daughter, and various hangers-on all may have had an interest in seeking the old man''s demise.'
'western','Roy and Gabby are Confederate scouts in Missouri during the American Civil War. Val McBride is a Confederate guerilla officer, who doesn’t play by the rules. When Roy first rides into town, he encounters an old childhood friend, Dave Allen. Dave tells Roy that he has joined McBride’s guerilla force and Roy is not pleased. He tells Dave that McBride is not a man to be admired but Dave doesn’t listen. McBride arrives at the saloon where Dave and Roy are talking and Roy and McBride nearly end up in a fight. The arrival of Union scouts prevents the fight as McBride and his force, including Dave, ride away. Shortly afterwards, McBride is told by his superior Confederate officer that he must play by the rules or be stripped of his command. McBride, furious that his effective (if crude and ungentlemanly) fighting is being scorned, leaves the Confederates and continues to fight both sides on his own. Roy and Gabby are soon assigned to tracking down and killing McBride and his men. During a brief pause in their search, Roy, Gabby, and the men they have recruited agree to take a small shipment of gold through to another Confederate officer. En route, McBride attacks. Gabby is hurt, though not seriously, while Roy is nearly killed. Dave (still one of McBride’s men) hangs back and helps Gabby get Roy to a nearby cabin for help. Then he leaves to rejoin McBride. Roy and Gabby set out to resume their search a few months later. After a long and dangerous search, Roy and Gabby find and corner McBride’s men including Dave, but McBride escapes. While Gabby takes care of business, Roy chases McBride to a local saloon and boarding house where the matron hides McBride and refuses to tell Roy where he is. McBride comes out and takes a shot at Roy but misses and Roy returns fire, killing McBride.'
'western','Boone Yeager has sold his ranch and cattle, and now spends his days drinking, gambling, and hanging around a gang of very disreputable individuals. His fiancé, Letty Meade, is distraught over his sudden change in behavior and breaks off their engagement. In addition, his longtime friend Bob Ives, a lieutenant in the local army troop, also severs his relationship with Yeager in response to Yeager''s recent activities. However, it is revealed that Letty''s father, Judge Meade, has empowered Yeager to infiltrate the local gang and hunt down its leader, while at the same time organizing the Arizona Rangers. Yeager gets in good with the gang, but cannot get them to reveal who their leader is. Finally, he participates in a stagecoach hold-up with the gang, along with his friend, Whooper Hatch. However, during the hold-up Yeager, Hatch, and two of the gang members are captured and thrown in jail. While behind bars, Yeager finally learns the true identity of the gang leader, who happens to be the local commissioner, Teagle. Yeager gets a meeting with his old friend, Ives, who he tries to tell the truth to, but Ives refuses to believe his story. Even worse, after leaving the meeting, Ives blows Yeager''s cover to Teagle. Yeager and Hatch manage to escape, and they round up the Arizona Rangers and go after the gang. When the local cavalry arrive, the gang is routed, and all are arrested, as well as recovering all the money the gang had stolen. Letty and Boone are reunited, and she once again accepts his engagement ring.'
'western','The orphaned Mary Jane Patterson (Jane Withers) is under the guardianship of Manuel Hernandez (Leo Carrillo), once known as the bandit El Gato, who led a gang of outlaws. Mary Jane wants Hernandez to revive the El Gato gang to rescue the feckless Donald (William "Bill" Henry), the lone survivor of a stage coach robbery engineered by the town''s crooked sheriff (Henry Wilcoxon). It''s been a decade since El Gato rode, and Hernandez is now too fat for his bandit costume. Mary Jane aids the rescue by vandalizing the saddles of the sheriff and his posse. When El Gato does rescue Donald, he is arrested. During the ensuing trial, Mary Jane provides special pyrotechnics, and the courtroom is evacuated. When Mary Jane finds the stash from the stagecoach robbery hidden in the sheriff''s office, Hernandez is appointed as the new sheriff.[1][2]'
'adventure','Bulldog (John Howard) and Algy (Reginald Denny), in the midst of preparations for the former''s wedding in London, are summoned to more important matters at the house of an eccentric scientist who has invented a prototype electric "death-ray" device which has the potential to revolutionize warfare. They find the scientist murdered in mysterious circumstances upon their arrival, and set out to find out what is going on and the culprit, aka The Stinger - leading to trouble with Scotland Yard, a dock-yard knife-fight which puts the Bulldog on the missing-in-action list temporarily, and a trip to the tropics to foil a master criminal''s attempt to sell the secret weapon to a foreign power for the highest price. Phyllis Clavering (Heather Angel), Drummond''s fiancée, goes on a cruise with her aunt Meg (Zeffie Tilbury) to the tropics, where she brings Drummond to the crooks, Lady Beryl Ledyard (Jean Fenwick) and Rolf Alferson (George Zucco).'
'comedy','Goliath, the circus strongman (Nat Pendleton) and the midget, Little Professor Atom (Jerry Maren), are accomplices of bad guy John Carter (James Burke) who is trying to take over the Wilson Wonder Circus. Julie Randall (Florence Rice) performs a horse act in the circus. In the animal car on the circus train, Goliath and Atom knock out Julie''s boyfriend, Jeff Wilson (Kenny Baker), and steal $10,000, which Jeff owes Carter. Jeff''s friend and circus employee, Tony (Chico), summons attorney J. Cheever Loophole (Groucho) to handle the situation. Loophole caves in when he sees the muscular Goliath, and gets nowhere with Little Professor Atom. In order to help Wilson, he first tries to get the hidden money from Carter''s moll, Peerless Pauline (Eve Arden), but fails. Tony and Punchy search Goliath''s stateroom on the circus train for the money, but are unsuccessful. Loophole calls upon Jeff''s wealthy aunt, Mrs. Dukesbury (Margaret Dumont), and tricks her into paying $10,000 for the Wilson Wonder Circus to entertain the Newport 400, instead of a performance by French conductor Jardinet (Fritz Feld), and his symphony orchestra. The audience is delighted with the circus; when Jardinet arrives, Loophole, who also delayed the Frenchman by implicating him in a dope ring, disposes of the conductor and his orchestra by having them play on a floating bandstand down at the water''s edge. Tony and Punchy (Harpo) cut the mooring rope while the orchestra plays the Prelude to Act Three of Wagner''s Lohengrin, Meanwhile, Carter and his henchmen try to burn down the circus, but are thwarted by Loophole, Tony, and Punchy, along with the only witness to the robbery: Gibraltar the gorilla (Charles Gemora), who also retrieves Wilson''s money.'
'musical','In 1921 vaudeville performer Joe Moran (Charles Winninger) announces the birth of a son; but after the advent of talking pictures in 1928, vaudeville fails. His son Mickey Moran (Mickey Rooney) writes songs, and Patsy Barton (Judy Garland) sings "Good Morning." Mickey sells the song for $100. He gives Patsy his pin and kisses her. Mickey learns that his parents Joe and Florrie (Grace Hayes) are going on the road without the children, and he disagrees. Patsy and Molly Moran (Betty Jaynes) sing "You Are My Lucky Star" and "Broadway Rhythm," but Joe says no to their going. So Mickey proposes the kids put on a show, and Don Brice (Douglas McPhail) sings "Babes in Arms" as they march and make a bonfire. Joe dismisses Mickey. Martha Steele (Margaret Hamilton) and her nephew Jeff Steele (Rand Brooks) from military school complain to Judge Black (Guy Kibbee) about the Vaudeville kids, but he won''t take them from their homes. In a drugstore Mickey and Patsy meet movie star Baby Rosalie Essex (June Preisser), but Mickey gets in a fight with Jeff. Mickey tells Judge Black that his parents'' show flopped. The judge gives Mickey thirty days to pay damages. Don and Molly sing "Where or When" with an orchestra of children. Mickey has a date with Baby and dines in her house. Mickey wants Baby in the show, which needs $287. She offers to pay it. Mickey smokes a cigar and leaves sick. Mickey tells Patsy that Baby has to play the lead because of the money. Baby shows how limber she is. Mickey directs rehearsal with Baby and Don, imitating Clark Gable and Lionel Barrymore. Patsy sees Mickey kiss Baby. Mickey tries to stop Patsy from leaving. On the bus Patsy sings "I Cried for You." Patsy goes to a theater to see her mother (Ann Shoemaker). Patsy says that Mickey is putting on a show to keep the kids out of an institution. Patsy''s mother tells Patsy not to quit her show. Baby''s father takes her out of the show, and Mickey asks Patsy to go on. In the show Patsy sings "Daddy Was a Minstrel Man." Mickey and Patsy put on blackface and sing a medley with Don. Patsy sings "I''m Just Wild About Harry," but a storm drives the audience away. Mickey learns that his father quit theater and got an elevator job. Mrs. Steele says the children must report and gives Joe the paper. Mickey gets a letter from producer Maddox (Henry Hull), who liked the show and produces it. As hidden Mickey listens, Maddox asks bitter Joe to teach the youngsters in the show. Mickey introduces the show by singing "God''s Country," which the company contrasts to fascism. Mickey and Patsy satirize Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt, and then everybody dances and finishes with a chorus of "God''s Country."'
'comedy','Polly Parrish (Ginger Rogers) is a salesgirl at the department store John B. Merlin and Son in New York City. Hired as temporary help for the Christmas season, she receives her dismissal notice as the season comes to a close. During her lunch break, she sees a stranger leaving a baby on the steps of an orphanage. Fearing the baby will roll down the steps, Polly picks it up. An attendant opens the door and mistakenly believes that Polly is the baby''s mother. David Merlin (David Niven), the playboy son of the store''s owner J.B. Merlin (Charles Coburn), is sympathetic to the "unwed mother" and arranges for her to get her job back. Mrs. Weiss (Ferike Boros), Polly''s landlady, offers to take care of the boy when Polly is at work. Unable to convince anyone that she is not the mother, and threatened by David with loss of her job if she doesn''t assume that role, Polly gives up and starts raising the child. David''s involvement with Polly gradually turns into love, but he keeps the relationship a secret from his father, fearing his reaction. When he finds that New Year''s Eve has arrived and he has no date, David turns to Polly. He orders clothes to be sent from the store and takes her to a party. Although David is falling for Polly, he does not relish the idea of a "ready-made family". When J.B. learns about the child, he assumes that David is the father. His suspicions are reinforced when, in a bit of bad timing, Polly and David each produce a different man whom they claim is the father. To his son''s surprise, J.B. is delighted (he had been impatiently waiting for David to settle down and provide him with a grandson). In the end, David decides that he is in love with Polly and baby John. He tells his father that he is the father of the child and plans to marry Polly, all the while believing Polly is the child''s mother.[3]'
'crime','The story revolves around a delinquent boy later to become a convict, the relationship he has throughout his life with his school colleagues and teacher, and how his calm demeanour no matter what life throws at him, leaves a lasting impression upon them. Frankie is an impoverished child of a kindly mother and an alcoholic father who spends what little income the family receives on drink. He is about to graduate from school and his family cannot afford to clothe him on this occasion. His teacher, Miss Williams, asks him to participate with the class in a performance in front of the school inspector. While others in the class have academic prowess, he plays the harmonica for him. Unfortunately the instrument is not his, as he noticed it in a shop window the previous night. He stole the harmonica along with some money, and the sheriff arrived just after the performance to interrogate him about the crime. Although his teacher and the sheriff are sympathetic to Frankie''s situation, the severity of the crime means that he has to be sent to reform school. He gains a tough reputation there and afterwards is sent to the state penitentiary for five years for punching a prison monitor. After this time he is released as an adult with two other inmates, and they spend their first evening of freedom together. Later they go with Frankie back to his home town. It happens to be Miss Williams'' birthday, and she is opening cards and presents sent by her former pupils, including Frankie. Although she has fond thoughts of all her students, she said to her friends that she cared for Frankie as if he were her own. Things have changed since Frankie left the town. He returns to his family shack, to find that a black woman and her children are now living there. She tells Frankie that his father had died and that his mother was taken away to an asylum a year previously. He meets Miss Williams and discovers that she has been pensioned off. He visits the chairman of the school board of governors, who happens to be both an old school colleague and the local bank manager. He asks him to find a position for Miss Williams in the new school, and agrees to consider it. The visiting trio then leave the town for Cleveland. Frankie meets up with another classmate Carol and forms a relationship with her. Upon returning to his digs, he finds a note from his two friends saying that they intended to rob an ice cream parlour at a given time. He races to the scene in order to prevent the crime, but arrives just as they kill the proprietor. He is implicated in and arrested for the crime. During the trial, Frankie is defended by another classmate, John Shelley (Van Heflin). While inexperienced as a lawyer, he delivers a powerful oration to the jury. Despite this, the jury finds him guilty, and he awaits execution. At the same time, the bank manager has organized a class reunion in the old schoolhouse. Frankie escapes from jail and manages to attend the reunion for a few moments. His parting message to his teacher and classmates is to never hate anyone, as he had abandoned any hatred for people while he was in jail. After he leaves the building, the sound of gunfire affirms that the police have caught up with him.'
'western','In 1875, a posse headed by sheriff Sheriff Bill Cummings (Robert Barrat) is held at bay by Apache warriors. The posse members are decimated one by one, until only the Sheriff is left.'
'musical','In 1914 Tsarist Russia, Prince Peter Karagin (Nelson Eddy) is a captain of the Cossack Guards, riding home from manoeuvres to an evening of wine, women and song at St. Petersburg''s Cafe Balalaika. The Balalaika''s new star, Lydia Pavlovna Marakova (Ilona Massey), is blackmailed into attending the officers'' party and is expected to choose a "favoured one." She intrigues Karagin when she makes good her escape instead. Masquerading as a poor music student, Karagin insinuating himself into Lydia''s family and circle of musician friends, unaware that they are dedicated revolutionaries. He discovers his larcenous orderly, Nikki Poppov (Charles Ruggles), courting the Marakovs'' maid, Masha (Joyce Compton). Karagin then bullies Ivan Danchenoff (Frank Morgan), Director of the Imperial Opera, into giving Lydia an audition; Danchenoff is pleasantly surprised to find that (unlike the 60 other women foisted on him by other aristocrats) she has real talent. Later, Karagin orders his usual arrangements for seduction, but falls in love instead and tries to cancel them. She understands both his former and current motives, and admits she loves him too. Their happiness ends when Lydia''s brother Dimitri (Dalies Frantz) is killed after giving a seditious speech on the street by Cossacks led by Peter, whom Lydia recognizes. When she learns that her opera debut will be used as an opportunity to assassinate Peter and his father the general (C. Aubrey Smith), she makes Peter promise not to come or let his father come to the performance, pretending she would be too nervous with them watching. The two men attend anyway. Fortunately, General Karagin receives a message that Germany has declared war on Russia and announces it to the crowd. Professor Makarov (Lionel Atwill), Lydia''s father, decides not to shoot because the general will be needed to defend Mother Russia. However, Leo Proplinski (Abner Biberman) feels otherwise, grabs the pistol and shoots the general, though not fatally. Peter finally learns of Lydia''s political beliefs when she is arrested. Later, he has her released. Peter goes to fight as an officer in the trenches. When the Russian Revolution overthrows the old regime, he winds up in 1920s Paris employed by his former orderly as a cabaret entertainer at the new "Balalaika". To celebrate the Russian Orthodox New Year, White Russians, wearing court dress and paste jewels, gather as Poppov''s guests. When Poppov makes Peter stand before a mirror, candle in hand, to make the traditional New Year''s wish to see his "true love," Lydia appears behind him.'
'drama','A singer named Emmy (Faye) meets broken-down journalist Hank Topping (Baxter) while travelling across Mongolia by train. A romance sparks, but is soon interrupted by a fierce group of murderous bandits. Fleeing, Emmy and Hank team up with others, eventually culminating in a fierce shootout with the marauders. A youngster of ten years, the Emmy and Hank team seek safety in a small fort or an antiquated country home located on barren lands. As the bandits approach, they hide in a basement level, protected only by a floorboard cover. As the bandits enter the building, the baby of Emmy and Hank begins to cry, thereby revealing the location of the couple and their team. As the bandits begin to chop their way through the floorboards, a rescue squad on motorcycles speeds over a nearby hill towards the building, then succeeding to rescue those trapped below the floor.'
'drama','French Foreign Legionnaires approach an isolated fort in the desert. The French flag is flying, but a closer inspection reveals only dead men propped up behind the parapets. However a single shot is fired from inside, so the bugler volunteers to scale the wall to investigate. After waiting a while, the commander follows. He finds two bodies that are not staged like the rest and a note on one confessing to the theft of a valuable sapphire called the "Blue Water". After the officer rejoins his men outside, the fort goes up in flames. Fifteen years earlier, Lady Brandon (Heather Thatcher), wife of absent spendthrift Sir Hector Brandon, takes care of the three adopted Geste brothers, "Beau" (Gary Cooper), Digby (Robert Preston) and John (Ray Milland); her ward Isobel Rivers (Susan Hayward); and heir Augustus Brandon. Years pass, and the children become young adults. They learn that Sir Hector intends to sell the "Blue Water", leaving nothing of value for Lady Brandon. At Beau''s request, the gem is brought out for one last look when suddenly the lights go out and it is stolen. All present proclaim their innocence, but first Beau and then Digby depart without warning, each leaving a confession that he committed the robbery. John reluctantly parts from his beloved Isobel and goes after his brothers. John discovers that they have joined the French Foreign Legion, so he enlists as well. They are trained by the sadistic Sergeant Markoff (Brian Donlevy). Legionnaire Rasinoff (J. Carrol Naish) overhears joking remarks by the Geste brothers, leading him and Markoff to believe that Beau has the gem. Markoff separates the brothers. Beau and John are assigned to a detachment sent to man isolated Fort Zinderneuf. When Lieutenant Martin dies from a fever, Markoff assumes command. Fearing the sergeant''s now-unchecked brutality, Schwartz (Albert Dekker) incites the other men to mutiny the next morning; only Beau, John, and Maris (Stanley Andrews) refuse to take part. However, Markoff is tipped off by Voisin (Harold Huber) and disarms the would-be mutineers while they are sleeping. The next morning, Markoff orders Beau and John to execute the ringleaders, but they refuse. Before Markoff can react, the fort is attacked by Arabs, forcing him to rearm his men. The initial assault is beaten off, but each new attack takes its toll. Markoff props up the corpses at their posts to deceive the enemy. The final assault is repulsed, but Beau is shot, leaving Markoff and John the only men left standing. Markoff sends John to get bread and wine. He then searches Beau and finds a small pouch and two letters. When John sees what Markoff has done, he draws his bayonet, giving Markoff the excuse to shoot the only witness to his theft. However, Beau is not yet dead and manages to spoil Markoff''s aim, allowing John to stab him. John and Beau hear a bugle announcing the arrival of reinforcements, Digby among them. Beau dies in his brother''s arms after telling him to take one of the letters to Lady Brandon and leave the other, a confession of the robbery, in Markoff''s hand. John escapes unseen. Digby volunteers to find out why there is no response from the fort. He discovers Beau''s body and, remembering his childhood wish, gives him a Viking funeral. He places Beau on a cot, with a "dog" (Markoff) at his feet, and sets fire to the barracks. Then he too deserts. He finds John outside the fort. Later, they encounter two American Legionnaire friends (Broderick Crawford and Charles Barton) and begin the long journey home. Desperate for water, they find an oasis, but it is occupied by Arabs. Digby tricks them into fleeing by sounding a bugle to signal a charge by non-existent Legionnaires, but is killed by a parting shot. John returns home. Lady Brandon reads aloud Beau''s letter, which reveals that he stole the gem because he knew it was a fake. Lady Brandon had sold the real one years before, and Beau wanted to protect her. As a child, he was hiding in a suit of armor and witnessed the transaction.'
'crime','A prison warden (Victor McLaglen) can either keep loot for his family or save an innocent youth (Jackie Cooper) condemned to die.'
'mystery','New York City newspaper columnist Ed Sullivan relates the story of crime boss Phil Daley''s rise and fall. To the disappointment of his parents but delight of younger brother Danny, crime has paid off handsomely for Phil, but he isn''t able to discourage Danny from following in his footsteps. Danny bribes a prizefighter to take a dive, costing rival gangster Mike Luger a lot of money in bets. Danny ends up dead, and Phil needs to lay low because Luger''s looking for him, too. He manages to kill Luger, but ends up arrested, convicted and sentenced to die.'
'crime drama','John Ingram is a very successful oil-field firefighter and a family man. All is going so well, he''s even bought his own oil well in hope of striking it rich. His greatest fears are realized, however, when a man, William Ramey, from his secret past sees Ingram in a newsreel and shows up looking for a job. Ramey attempts to blackmail Ingram, who had run from a chain gang years ago and started a new life under an assumed name. After a shady deal is made, Ingram is tricked and Ramey turns him into authorities, who return him to a chain gang. Ramey subsequently becomes a very rich man. When Ingram finds out about the success of the man who betrayed him, he plans a daring escape in an attempt to return home and get revenge.'
'crime','Chester Morris plays a prison escapee who hides out with his gang in the home of a noted psychologist, played by Ralph Bellamy. Though a prisoner, the doctor begins delving into his captor''s psyche. The film was adapted from the Broadway play of the same name by James Warwick. It was remade as The Dark Past, with William Holden in the Morris role and Lee J. Cobb in Bellamy''s.'
'comedy','The film centers on Blondie (Penny Singleton) taking over at Dagwood''s (Arthur Lake) office while he is off on a fishing trip.'
'western','While driving a herd of cattle in northern Montana, cowboys Gene Autry (Gene Autry), Frog Millhouse (Smiley Burnette), and Steve (Tully Marshall) cross the border into Canada. Riding alone, Steve stumbles upon a convoy of fur smugglers who stab him and leave him to die in the woods. Before dying, he manages to scrawl the initials "HH". After discovering the body of their murdered friend and his final cryptic clue, Gene and Frog ride to the nearby HH ranch, which is owned by Dorothy Hamilton (June Storey) and her partner, Hendricks (Harry Woods). Unknown to Dorothy, Hendricks is the head of the fur smuggling ring. Suspicious of Hendricks, Gene and Frog stampede their cattle into the HH herd as an excuse to spend time at the ranch and investigate. Soon they discover that the furs are being smuggled into a storehouse on the ranch and then shipped out of the country. While preparing to escort another shipment of pelts, the smugglers discover Gene and Frog in the storeroom and, deciding to use Gene as a cover for their illegal activities, hijack him and his wagon. After the smugglers leave, Frog escapes from the storeroom and organizes a rescue party to search for Gene and his captors. As the smugglers hold up another warehouse of furs, Gene escapes and tries to prevent the robbery, but is shot in the arm. He manages to sound the alarm and then follows after the smugglers by dogsled. After catching up to the thieves, Gene sees them loading the furs into Hendricks'' car. Gene causes a daring avalanche that traps the smugglers and exacts justice for the murder of his friend.'
'drama','Runaway boy Jesse Thompson, hoping to earn enough money to support his mother, follows a gang of other boys. After an infraction gets them all in trouble, they are forced to work in a fenced and guarded turpentine camp, climbing and tapping trees. They are free to leave only if they can first pay off bills they ran up at the company store (peonage). Trapped in a state of de facto slavery, they decide to strike for better food after one boy gets dizzy from hunger and falls from a tree, resulting in the amputation of his arm. When their protest fails, the boys decide to write a letter about the conditions of their detention to the U.S. President''s wife, but it is intercepted. The boys believe one of their number is a "snitch", but later discover differently.'
'drama','In the story, Sybil Fitch (Boland) adopts two orphan boys (O''Connor, Lee). Her husband (Ruggles) is infuriated. However, when the boys catch scarlet fever, he finds that he really does love them.'
'crime','Seventeen-year-old Tommy Ryan lives with Mrs. O‘Meara, a seamstress, and her teenage son Eddie. Tommy’s exact status is unclear; Mrs. O’Meara’s says he is a friend of her son Eddie and “stays here with us and a finer lad never trod the green earth.” Tommy works in a grocery store and more than pulls his weight around the O’Meara home, but his foster brother Eddie is unemployed and hanging around a pool hall with a gang of teenage thieves led by Mike Hearn, the pool hall owner. Hearn promises teenage ‘Knuckles’ Malone $50 to steal a fur coat from a warehouse and sends Eddie O’Meara along to drive the getaway car. When the heist is thwarted and Knuckles nabbed by the police, Eddie escapes with the stolen goods and returns home. Tommy tries to repair the damage and keep the incident from Mrs. O’Meara by dumping the car and the furs outside of town. He is picked up by the police. In court, Tommy takes the rap in order to spare Mrs. O’Meara the grief of seeing her son implicated in the crime. Tommy and Knuckles are sentenced to the State Industrial School for three years. When alone for a moment with Eddie, Tommy urges him to take good care of his mother. At the State School, Tommy remains true to himself. He is honest, hard working, and well mannered. Dr. Owens, once a reform school inmate himself but now a morally upright professional man, takes an interest in the boy and urges him to plan for life after prison. He has Tommy removed from the crew at the school’s farm to work in his office. One day, Tommy discovers Eddie O’Meara is an inmate in the reformatory. Eddie dropped out of Hearn’s gang of thieves and found a job in order to take care of his mother, but Hearn feared Eddie would squeal to the police about the gang’s past. Hearn decided to get the boy out of his way by staging a robbery at the gas station where the boy worked and then framing him. Hearn now fears that Tommy, Eddie, and Knuckles will now “squawk” and realizes his operation is still in jeopardy. He decides to “spring” the three boys from prison and to silence them once he has them in his clutches. Tommy is reluctant to participate in the escape but when he learns that Hearn threats to rough up Mrs. O’Meara he has no choice but to escape and protect her. The escape plan is foiled, but later, Tommy and Knuckles manage to escape at gunpoint. At the pool hall, Tommy convinces Hearn he is on his side. A heist is planned. Tommy secretly makes plans to meet Dr. Owens at the site of the heist to apprehend Hearn and his gang. Hearn and his men are taken into custody after a car chase. With Dr. Owens assistance, Tommy and Eddie are paroled and restored to Mrs. O’Meara.'
'musical comedy','A wealthy and spoiled young playboy finds the importance of hard work and true love in a Swiss chalet.'
'western','Cowboy Bob Blake receives a letter from his friend Joe Jackson, asking for help. Blake and his men travel to Jackson''s ranch, only to discover from Jackson''s sister Betty that Joe has been missing for three weeks. Meanwhile, Jackson''s ranch hand (Slim Perkins) is learning to use ventriloquism to make the farm animals talk, and tries to convince the gullible Dusty to buy a talking mule. Blake discovers that Jackson is being held by a local land grabbing rancher, Buck Thorne, who (with his partner Pete) has discovered gold on Jackson''s ranch. They killed Joe''s and Betty''s father, and are trying to force Joe to deed the land over to Thorne. Blake develops a plan to rescue Jackson from where he is being held above the saloon, but runs into trouble. Betty sends Blake''s men into the saloon as backup and is kidnapped by Thorne, who then threatens to kill Betty and Joe if they do not sign the deed. While Dusty rides for the sheriff, Blake and his men backtrack Betty''s horse (who arrived home riderless). A gun battle ensues, with the sheriff arriving in the nick of time. The villains are hauled off to jail, and Blake rides into the sunset with Betty.'
'science fiction','In 1938, Lieutenant Buck Rogers (Buster Crabbe) and Buddy Wade (Jackie Moran) are part of the crew of a dirigible flying over the North Pole. They are caught in a savage storm and crash. They are ordered to release the experimental Nirvano Gas, which (unbeknownst to them) will put them in suspended animation until they are rescued. The Nirvano Gas works, but the dirigible is buried in an avalanche and is not found until 500 years have passed. When Buck and Buddy are found, they awaken in the year 2440 to a world ruled by the ruthless dictator, Killer Kane (Anthony Warde), and his army of "super-racketeers". Only those who live in the "Hidden City", run by the benevolent scientist Dr. Huer (C. Montague Shaw) and his military counterpart, Air Marshal Kragg (William Gould), resist the criminal rulers of Earth. Buck and Buddy join the resistance. They volunteer to go to Saturn, where they hope that they can find help in their fight against Kane. Wilma Deering (Constance Moore) is assigned to accompany them. Saturn is run by Aldar (Guy Usher) and the Council of the Wise and Prince Tallen. To the dismay of Buck and Buddy, they also discover that Kane has dispatched ambassadors of his own, headed by his loyal henchman, Captain Laska (Henry Brandon). The serial then becomes a back-and-forth struggle between Buck and Kane to secure the military support of Saturn.'
'mystery','In London, a shape charge-wielding master criminal comes up with a foolproof plan for robbing a bank and outwitting Scotland Yard''s pursuit, but during the getaway he hides his haul in a radio set in the new flat of Capt. Bulldog Drummond (John Howard) and his to-be wife Phyllis Clavering (Heather Angel), leading to a murder, punch-ups, an expedition to France, a night in a French jail cell and a break-out, in a race to reach Bulldog''s fiancee. Phyllis is waiting for Drummond in a French village with her aunt Blanche Clavering (Elizabeth Patterson (actress)), to be married the next day. She has sent a telegram, asking him to send her the radio, both unaware of its content. The villains meet their end in a roof-top fight and Bulldog finally ties the matrimonial knot in an explosive finale to his bachelorhood.'
'mystery','An absent-minded Professor Downie (Forrester Harvey) makes a call upon Capt. Hugh "Bulldog" Drummond (John Howard) as he is making plans for his much-delayed wedding to fiancee Phyllis Claverling (Heather Angel) in his ancestral home Temple Tower. The professor informs Drummond that a fortune was buried in one of the walled off storerooms underneath his estate, and that Downie was in possession of a book written in code that would lead them to discover the treasure. Unfortunately for the professor, someone else also wanted the riches and Drummond once again is dragged into the plot as the code book is stolen, Professor Downie is murdered, and Phyllis is kidnapped.'
'romantic comedy','The wealthy Christopher "Chris" West is a member of the cafe society. To win a bet, she marries reporter Crick O''Bannon, who believes Chris married him for love. When Crick overhears Chris telling one of her friends about the bet, he decides to get even by writing a story about her betrayal. In response, Chris''s grandfather, Christopher West Sr, apologizes for his granddaughter''s behavior and requests that the couple live together until the divorce is quietly finalized in order to avoid a scandal. Because he dislikes Chris'' society friends, Crick refuses and lives apart from her. While still married, Chris and Crick constantly argue. When she notices that Crick is close to nightclub singer Bells Browne, Chris becomes jealous but resigned that Crick prefers Bells. She decides to sail for Europe, but is surprised when Crick appears on the ship, having been alerted to Chris''s departure by her grandfather. Crick explains that Bells is only a friend and Chris returns to shore with him. However, Chris''s jealousy resurfaces upon seeing Bells singing at the club that night and she persuades the club''s owner to fire Bells. When the bartender, Bill, calls Chris out on her brash behavior, a contrite Chris asks that Bells be rehired and admits to Crick that she has been an awful fool.'
'crime drama','Jimmy Hogan and his gang are caught robbing a post office. Jimmy is given a choice to either go to reform school or work as a messenger boy for the post office as punishment. Jimmy decides to be a messenger boy, and soon drags his pals into the job. The kids eventually enjoy their jobs, especially when their new boss, Frances O''Neill, turns out to be quite attractive. After becoming friends with fellow messenger boy Bob Prichard, Jimmy decides to hook Bob up with his sister, Marge. He feels that Bob is a much better match for Marge then a local gangster who has been spending too much time with her. Pretty soon, Jimmy''s brother Ed returns home from prison. At first, Jimmy is glad to have his brother back home, but pretty soon, he and Ed get mixed up with some gangsters who plan on robbing the post office.'
'comedy short','The Stooges are skilled veterinarians at a pet hospital who are the proud surgeons of Garçon, a prized poodle of socialite Mrs. Bedford (Isabelle LaMal). They successfully remove a thorn from his paw. Dognappers posing as reporters (Lynton Brent, Cy Schindell) dognap Garçon. Before the kidnapping crime is discovered, the trio attempts to enjoy a dinner of bones and dog biscuits at a long table with all the other dogs who are patients at the hospital. It''s during the meal that a nurse discovers Garçon is missing. The boys frantically try to trick Mrs. Bedford by disguising a mutt as Garçon. However, when Mrs. Bedford''s maid (Libby Taylor), who is frightened of dogs, accidentally vacuums a clump of glued-on fur off the mutt''s shaggy coat, Mrs. Bedford threatens to throw the Stooges in jail. Desperate, the trio use the mutt as a bloodhound to track down the crooks. When they discover the enemies'' hideout, a big fight ensues. Larry and Moe get knocked out, but then Curly defeats both crooks. The boys hear Garçon quietly barking from inside a closet, only to discover that the prized poodle has had a litter of pups.'
'drama','Dr. Leonard Gillespie, the crusty senior diagnostician at New York''s Blair General Hospital, has a severe disagreement with pupil, intern James Kildare, over a suspected case of Q fever. He decides to teach his stubborn assistant a lesson in dealing with the emotional causes of his patients'' ills as well as the physical. To accomplish this, he fires Kildare and has him reassigned to work in a neighborhood dispensary with nurse Mary Lamont, whom he enlists with the aid of head nurse Molly Byrd to "stooge" on the intern. On the day that Kildare begins his new job, young Red enters the dispensary and confidentially asks the intern to help an injured friend, Nick Lewett. He follows Red to a cellar hideout where he discovers that Nick is suffering from a gunshot wound. Kildare is on the verge of sending Nick on to Blair when Nick''s sister Rosalie convinces him not to do so. Against hospital procedure and the law requiring reporting of all gunshots to the police, Kildare continues to treat Nick in the hideout, even after he knows that the boy is wanted for the murder of bookmaker "Footsy" Garson over a gambling debt. Smitten with Rosalie, he tells Mary he knows that she''s been reporting back to Gillespie on his activities. Despite Mary''s resistance, Gillespie uses her obvious admiration for Kildare to persuade her to tell him what Kildare is up to, and tries to warn the intern that he is flirting with being an accessory to murder. He tries to persuade Kildare to at least reveal Nick''s whereabouts, but Kildare is sure of Nick''s innocence and refuses to do so. A worried Gillespie arranges with Kildare''s mother to call him home to help his physician father with a difficult patient, but when the intern returns, he is picked up by the police along with Nick. For his involvement, Kildare is yet again suspended from the hospital staff but remains determined to prove Nick''s innocence. Learning from Nick that he went to see Garson after his friend Tom Crandell accused Garson of maligning Rosalie, Kildare decides to confront Crandell. With the help of ambulance driver Joe Wayman and his persuasive monkey wrench, Kildare compels Crandell into confessing that he killed Garson and shot Nick, suspicious of his relationship with Rosalie, to frame him. After Nick is exonerated, Gillespie visits Rosalie and deduces that she was Crandell''s girl friend. He steers her into admitting to Kildare that her only interest in him was to save her brother, and later confesses to Kildare that he arranged for Nick''s arrest but that Kildare almost ruined the plan by returning from home. A little wiser, Kildare resumes as Dr. Gillespie''s assistant and begins to look at Nurse Lamont in a better light.'
'action adventure','In the 1840s, Captain Michael Fury (Brian Aherne) is an Irish patriot transported to New South Wales for his political involvement. He is farmed out as an servant to Arnold Trist, a cruel land owner who uses whipping to keep discipline. He is accompanied by fellow convicts Blackie, Coughy and Bertie. Fury escapes from prison and meets Jeannette Dupre, the daughter of strict Mennonite Francois Dupre. Fury discovers that Trist is trying to drive settlers from the area to take over their land. Fury organises the settlers to take action against Trist. He returns to prison to recruit convicts to help settlers. Trist''s men attack the Bailey ranch. Fury, helped by Blackie, Coughy and Bertie, oppose them. Jeanette begins to fall in love with Fury. Her father forbids her to see him, so she runs away. Dupre then tells Trist where Fury can be found. Trist double crosses Dupre and imprisons him. Fury and his men narrowly escape an ambush from Trist''s men. Dupre''s house is burnt down and a charred body is discovered in the ruins. Fury is arrested for Dupre''s murder and sentenced to hang. However Blackie hears Dupre calling from his cell, rescues him and presents him to the Governor. Trist is exposed. He attempts to escape but is shot by a dying Coughy. The Governor grands Fury a pardon and places Blackie and Bertie in his custody.[2]'
'comedy','Cyrus Norman was a millionaire who lived in the Louisiana bayous with his mistress Miss Lu (Gale Sondergaard). Norman died ten years previous, and now an American Indian man (George Regas) paddles the executor of Norman''s estate, Mr. Crosby (George Zucco), through alligator-infested waters to Norman''s isolated mansion, where his will is to be read at midnight. At the mansion, Crosby meets Miss Lu, who lives there with a large black cat. When he removes the will from a safe, he discovers that someone has tampered with it. Crosby and Miss Lu are joined by Norman''s survivors: Joyce Norman (Paulette Goddard), Fred Blythe (John Beal), Charles Wilder (Douglass Montgomery), Cicily (Nydia Westman), Aunt Susan (Elizabeth Patterson), and Wally Campbell (Bob Hope). As the group gathers in the parlor to read the will, an unseen gong rings seven times. According to Miss Lu, this means that only seven of the eight people present will survive the night. Norman''s will has two parts. The first indicates that Joyce will inherit the entire estate, under one condition: Concerned about a streak of insanity in the family''s blood, Norman stipulated that his heirs must remain sane for the next 30 days. If Joyce loses her sanity during that time, the heir will be determined from the second part of the will. This arrangement raises concerns about Joyce''s safety, since other family members can increase their chances of inheriting by murdering her or driving her insane. After the reading, Crosby informs everyone that they will have to stay overnight; Miss Lu warns them of spirits in the house; and a security guard found prowling outside claims that a murderer called "The Cat" has escaped from the nearby insane asylum. In the parlor, Crosby tries to warn Joyce about something, but a hidden doorway opens in the wall and someone pulls him into the space behind it. Joyce becomes frightened when everyone except Wally believes she imagined this. Amid suspicion and accusations, Miss Lu gives Joyce a letter from Norman that Joyce and Wally use to find a diamond necklace. Joyce puts the necklace under her pillow in Norman''s room, but after she falls asleep, a hand reaches out from the wall, terrifies her, and takes the necklace. At this point, Joyce is almost out of her mind with fear and confusion, but Wally finds a movable wall panel near her bed and opens a hidden door leading to a secret passageway. Crosby''s dead body falls out from behind the door. To help Joyce recover from her fright, Wally chats with her in the parlor. When he leaves to fetch some liquor, he hears something in Norman''s room, opens the hidden door, and explores the passageway. Meanwhile, Joyce sees the door in the parlor as it opens. When Wally calls to her, she hears him through the passageway and enters it to find him. Once she is inside, someone closes the door. With no exit, Joyce explores the passageway, walking past a dark cranny where the security guard is hiding. The Cat also walks past the guard, who stops him and takes the necklace from him, but the Cat stabs the guard in the back and follows Joyce, who has discovered a door leading outside. After the Cat chases Joyce into a shed and threatens her with a knife, Wally arrives and calls him "Charlie", having found the second part of the will in Charles''s coat. Charles removes his Cat mask, pins Wally to the wall with his knife, and begins to strangle Joyce, but Miss Lu arrives with a shotgun and kills him. The next day, Wally and Joyce explain the story to newspaper reporters and unofficially announce their engagement.'
'crime','Charlie and Jimmy Chan are traveling by plane to San Francisco. Jimmy befriends insurance executive Thomas Gregory. Charlie''s friend, novelist Paul Essex, dies aboard the aircraft after receiving a radiogram warning him not to ignore "Zodiac". His briefcase mysteriously disappears. Charlie meets with Deputy Police Chief J.J. Kilvaine, and runs into reporter and old friend Peter Lewis. Charlie also meets noted local magician Fred Rhadini, and discusses Essex''s death with the three men. Rhadini tells Charlie about Dr. Zodiac, a psychic preying on the rich in San Francisco. Charlie, Rhadini, and Lewis go to Dr. Zodiac''s home, where Dr. Zodiac conducts an eerie séance. Lewis'' fiancée, Eve Cairo, has been meeting with Dr. Zodiac, angering Lewis. Later, Kilvaine reveals that Essex was poisoned, but can''t rule out suicide. Jimmy spends the afternoon following Thomas Gregory, whom he believes stole Essex''s briefcase when leaving the plane. He discovers Essex''s manuscript in Gregory''s hotel room. That night, Charlie attends Rhadini''s magic show at the Golden Gate International Exposition on Treasure Island. Rhadini''s clumsy, comic acquaintance, Elmer Kelner, is helping to serve food and drink at the club. Charlie meets Eve Cairo and socialite Bessie Sibley, as well as Rhadini''s jealous wife, Myra. During her telepathy act with Fred Rhadini, Eve comes into contact with someone thinking about murder and Charlie is almost killed when a knife is thrown at him. After the show, Charlie, followed by Rhadini and Lewis, break into Dr. Zodiac''s home. They find Jimmy already there. Charlie discovers evidence that Zodiac is a fraud. When Zodiac''s Turkish houseman, Abdul, arrives, Charlie searches him and finds the holster that fits the knife. Abdul escapes, and the burglars discover Zodiac''s vast files which he uses to frighten and blackmail others. Charlie realizes Bessie Sibley is providing information on others to protect herself, and that Zodiac was blackmailing Essex. Charlie burns Zodiac''s office to protect the innocent. Essex''s manuscript is a fictional account of Dr. Zodiac''s blackmail scheme, and the next morning Charlie finds that the last page revealing who the murder was committed is missing. Charlie meets with Gregory, who says he is an insurance company detective investigating mysterious suicides. Charlie believes Gregory''s claim is false, and Gregory fails to steal the manuscript back. Charlie believes Dr. Zodiac suffers from pseudologia fantastica, and Rhadini challenges Dr. Zodiac to a public test of psychic skills. Dr. Zodiac accepts the claim by leaving a note on the front door of the Temple of Magic where Rhadini performs. It''s written on the same paper that contains the missing manuscript page. The manuscript mentions a pygmy arrow; a similar arrow from a display in the foyer of the Temple of Magic is missing. That night, Charlie, Jimmy, Bessie Sibley, Myra Rhadini, and Peter Lewis attend Rhadini''s magic show, where he is assisted by Eve Cairo and Elmer Kelner. Dr. Zodiac appears during the show, and is invited on stage. As Rhadini performs a levitation trick, Zodiac is killed with the pygmy arrow. Dr. Zodiac is revealed to be Abdul. Although a bow is found, it is too brittle to have fired the arrow. Zodiac must have been stabbed with the arrow. Gregory gives Rhadini an alibi after discovering Rhadini''s wand in the aisle by his seat. Kilvaine reveals that Gregory is Stewart Salsbury, and that he really is an insurance company executive. At Kilvaine''s suggestion, the murder is re-enacted with Lewis standing in for Zodiac. The secret of Rhadini''s levitation trick is revealed, and Rhadini is stabbed in the aisle during the act. Myra uses the "sphinx"—an upright metal pseudo-Egyptian coffin with a hidden elevator in its floor—to go from the stage to the below-stage area, where her husband''s dressing room is located. Charlie encourages Eve to try to tap into the mind of the killer. Eve reads Charlie''s thoughts, which describe the motivations of Stella Essex, Bessie Sibley, Thomas Gregory, Peter Lewis, Fred Rhadini, and Myra Rhadinia (although without mentioning their names). The mind of Dr. Zodiac interferes with Eve''s mind. Eve reads Zodiac''s mind, and discovers that the real Dr. Zodiac killed Abdul because only Abdul knew Dr. Zodiac''s real identity. The killer attempts to shoot Eve while she is on stage, but Jimmy spots the pistol and pushes the gun away just in time. Dr. Zodiac is revealed to be Fred Rhadini. While all eyes were on Eve, he sneaked into the wings, ran below the stage, and used the elevator in the sphinx to re-emerg on stage and attempt to kill Eve. Charlie reveals that Rhadini used a wand with a spring trigger to fire the arrow that killed Abdul. He then stabbed himself to divert attention from himself as a suspect.'
'crime','While visiting Prefect of Police Romaine (C. Henry Gordon) in Paris, France, during the Czech annexation crisis in September 1938, Charlie Chan (Sidney Toler) is left to guide Romaine''s bumbling godson, Police Inspector Marcel Spivak (Harold Huber), during a blackout. The two are called to the home of Petroff (Douglass Dumbrille), an arms dealer who has been murdered. Spivak suspects his butler, Antoine (Pedro de Cordoba), but spy Charlotte Ronnell (Dorothy Tree) is spotted fleeing the residence. Due to a chance encounter earlier, Chan realizes that local woman Marie Dubon (Lynn Bari) is involved, and the two detectives head to her hotel. Charlie learns that Dubon was helping her husband, Tony Madero (Richard Clarke), clear his name after Petroff accused him of smuggling. Following a clue in Dubon''s room, Chan interrogates counterfeitor Louis Santelle (Leo G. Carroll). Returning to the Petroff household, Chan and Spivak track down burglars Lola (Barbara Leonard), Max (Louis Mercier), and Alex (George Davis) (who had broken into Petroff''s house just before the murder) before interrogating Petroff''s business partner, Belescu (Noel Madison). After nearly being killed by Santelle, Charlie realizes that three clues are the key to the case: A dropped franc coin, a wooden leg, and a telephone left off the hook. After Belescu is shot, Chan and Spivak chase Ronnell to Le Bourget Airport. But her plane crashes during takeoff and she dies. Chan returns to police headquarters, and reveals that Antoine (a French patriot) killed Petroff after returning home early and discovering that Petroff was selling arms to Nazi Germany. Prefect Romaine says Antoine will likely stand trial for murder, but is likely to receive the Legion of Honour instead of the guillotine.'
'crime','Mary Whitman has arrived in Reno to obtain a divorce. While there, she is arrested on suspicion of murdering a fellow guest at her hotel (which specializes in divorcers). There are many others at the hotel who wanted the victim out of the way. Charlie Chan travels from his home in Honolulu to Reno to solve the murder at the request of Mary''s soon-to-be ex-husband.'
'western','Kid and his partner, Gordito, and another outlaw named Harbison are each bequeathed a third interest in a gold mine of a dying prospector and whose only request is that they take care of his baby. In order to make sure that each keeps their promise, he tears the map of the mine in 3 parts.'
'drama','Lieutenant Raymond "Ray" Dower (Ralph Bellamy) commands a United States Coast Guard cutter. His best friend in the Coast Guard, Lieutenant Thomas "Speed" Bradshaw (Randolph Scott), is a highly regarded, but reckless pilot. In a daring rescue at sea, both men are involved in saving Tobias Bliss (Walter Connolly), the captain of a tramp steamer. At the base hospital, the two officers visit the rescued man and meet Nancy (Frances Dee), his granddaughter. Both friends fall in love with her, but Speed proposes first; broken-hearted, Ray still acts as the best man at the wedding. The marriage falters, and when Nancy is fed up with many lonely nights alone, she leaves Speed. In trying to win her back, Speed crashes while stunting over her house. Grounded and facing a court-martial, the disgraced pilot finds out that his best friend is missing while on an Arctic rescue mission. Nancy coaxes Speed and his co-pilot, O''Hara (Warren Hymer), to attempt a rescue, and after a harrowing crash-landing in the Arctic, an injured Ray is located. Speed manages a dangerous takeoff and flies his friend back home, to find a relieved Nancy waiting for him.'
'crime','United States Secret Service Lieutenant Brass Bancroft (Ronald Reagan) and his partner, Gabby Watters (Eddie Foy, Jr., producer Bryan Foy''s brother), seek engraving plates stolen from the U.S. Treasury Department, and the investigation leads Bancroft and Watters to pursue a counterfeiting ring in Mexico.[2][3][4] Along the way, Bancroft is falsely blamed for the death of a fellow Secret Service agent, escapes from jail, captures the leader of the counterfeiting ring, and wins the heart of his love interest, Elaine (Rosella Towne).[5]'
'crime','Convicted on circumstantial evidence, Tommy Shay (Paul Fix), a young product of the Front Street slums, is sentenced to die for the murder of police lieutenant Carson (Monte Montague). When Denver Collins (Marc Lawrence), Tommy''s only alibi, mysteriously disappears, Tommy''s younger brother Danny (James McCallion) and his gang of alley kids (The Little Tough Guys) determine to find a way to save Tommy from the electric chair. Lieutenant Lewis (Harry Carrey), Tommy''s arresting officer, also believes that the boy is innocent and tries to get the case reopened. For his efforts, Lewis is demoted to patrolman, prompting his son Bob (Frankie Thomas), a radio bug with an ambition to become a detective, to initiate his own investigation by which he hopes to find the real murderer and reinstate his father. While searching for Collins on Front Street, Bob meets Danny and after he fibs that his father is a gangster, the boys join forces to track down Carson''s killer. Acting on a tip, Danny and Bob visit a gambling club operated by Chick Foster (Leon Ames) and warn Foster that the police have reopened the Carson murder case and are looking for Denver Collins. In response, Foster begins to act strangely, giving the boys a look at his henchman, Halstead, whom they suspect is Collins. When the boys discover that Bob is really a cop''s son, they beat him up but have a change of heart upon learning that Bob''s father was arrested while trying to help Tommy. Joining forces once again, the boys locate Halstead''s hideout and lure Foster to the spot with a phony telegram. Eavesdropping by means of a Dictaphone, they learn that Halstead is really Collins and that he was hired by Foster to kill Carson. Overcome with fear, Halstead demands that Foster pay him off, and in the ensuing argument, Foster kills Halstead and hurries back to his club. Refusing to give up, Bob follows Foster and, after connecting a microphone attached to a radio in Foster''s office, broadcasts a fake news flash telling how Halstead made a full confession before his death. Attempting to escape, Foster hails a cab in the alley which has been commandeered by Danny and the gang. After the boys force a confession from Foster, Officer Lewis arrives to arrest the gambler, and all ends happily as Tommy is freed, Lewis is reinstated as lieutenant, and the kids decide to go straight.'
'western','Tired of traveling around the country performing their music, singing cowboy Gene Autry (Gene Autry) and his Texas Troubadors decide to purchase a cattle ranch and settle down. When they arrive at the ranch purchased for them by Frog Millhouse (Smiley Burnette), they cannot believe that the herd consists of milkcows rather than the cattle they had anticipated. Soon they find themselves in the middle of a dairy war in which various farmers'' trucks are being hijacked and destroyed in an attempt to drive them out of business. The town veterinarian, Dr. Rodney Blair (Robert Barrat), suggests that the Hall Trucking Company is behind the raids and proposes the establishment of a protective association. No one suspects that Blair and deputy sheriff Dave Haines (Buster Crabbe) are in fact the real masterminds behind the sabotage. When Gene vetoes Blair''s idea of a protective association, the doctor directs his men to attack Gene''s ranch, sending a secret code over the radio station owned by Haines''s unsuspecting sister Carol (June Storey). During the raid, Gene captures Clanton (Jack Ingram), one of Blair''s men, and turns him over to Sheriff George Glenn (William Farnum). Soon after, Blair arrives at the jail, kills the sheriff, and frees his henchman. Suspecting that Blair and Haines are involved in the raids, Gene accepts decides to run for sheriff against Haines, and he wins. Gene then convinces the ranchers to contract with the Hall Trucking Company. When he discovers Blair''s secret radio messages, he tricks Dr. Blair and his men into an ambush in which the milk trucks are overturned, and the hijackers are caught. Gene and his men emerge victorious in the dairy war.'
'drama','Dr. Karl Kassel (Paul Lukas) comes to America to rally support for the Nazi cause among German Americans. He instructs his audience at a German restaurant that the Führer has declared war on the evils of democracy and that, as Germans, they should carry out his wishes. Kurt Schneider (Francis Lederer), an unemployed malcontent, joins the cause and eventually becomes a spy for the group. A letter written by Schneider to a liaison in Scotland is intercepted by a British Military Intelligence officer (James Stephenson), leading to the ring''s downfall. FBI Agent Ed Renard (Edward G. Robinson) is assigned to the case and is able to capture Schneider and extract a confession by flattering his ego. Through Schneider, Renard is led to Hilda Kleinhauer (Dorothy Tree), then Kassel''s mistress Erika Wolff (Lya Lys), and eventually the ringleader himself. While the FBI manages to capture many members of the ring and their accomplices, several, including Kassel, are secretly spirited back to Germany, but some ultimately face a worse fate there. The character and event portrayed by Ward Bond as an American Legionaire is based on an actual event that occurred in late April 1938 when approximately 30 World War I American Legion Veterans stood up to the Bund in New York City during a celebration of Hitler''s birthday. The veterans were severely beaten and later Cecil Schubert, who suffered a fractured skull, was personally recognized for his bravery by Mayor La Guardia. There are many similarities between the events depicted in the movie and the real world round up of the Nazi Duquesne Spy Ring in 1941. In 1946, Robinson appeared in a post-war anti-Nazi film, The Stranger.'
'drama','Steve Kendall is an American telegraph operator aboard a cargo ship. He inadvertently discovers that his ship is carrying contraband arms, when a revolutionary agent forces him to send a message to the revolutionaries ashore. When the secret police catch him catch the two together, the revolutionary flees, but is shot dead as he attempts to jump overboard. Seeing the two of them together, the police mistakenly believe Kendall to be in league with the local revolutionaries. Nearing port, Kendall dives overboard and swims to ashore in a foreign country. Being chased by the militia and police, he winds up meeting a local member of the revolutionary party, Nedra. It is discovered that Nedra was the sister of the man killed by the police on the boat, and Nedra''s group had been planning to hijack the illegal arms which Kendall''s ship was carrying. Nedra introduces Kendall to Tio, an American expatriate who runs a local dance hall. Tio agrees to hide him in the basement of the hall, while Nedra tries to figure a way to smuggle Kendall out of the country. Eventually Nedra arranges transport for Kendall on a steamship heading north, but before he can make good his escape, the police descend on Tio''s, forcing not only Kendall to flee, but Tio and his friend, Studs, as well. The police chase them via speedboat, heading them off at the steamship. The group heads back to land, where Tio radios a call for help. After a gunfight, the foursome escape via seaplane to the United States, where, after they arrive, Nedra tearfully lets them know that she has to go back and help her comrades in their fight for freedom.'
'comedy','Rusty Walker, a scout for the Chicago Packers professional football team, discovers a young fellow named Harry Lynn in remote Montana who has amazing prowess as a quarterback. He persuades Harry to come to Chicago, but because Harry is afraid to leave girlfriend Maizie alone with rival suitor "Handsome Sam" Saxon, he insists that Maizie be permitted to come along. Harry''s play is as good as Rusty expects it to be, but Maizie is a constant distraction. When she leaves town, team management fixes up Harry with the attractive Evelyn Corey and, sure enough, he falls in love. Harry writes a letter to Maizie, breaking off their engagement, then has second thoughts, but teammate Steve mails it without Harry''s knowledge. Getting drunk, Harry loses $5,000 gambling while unaware he was betting real money. Crooks instruct him to throw the Packers'' big game against the Ramblers, and things get further complicated when Harry learns that Evelyn actually intends to marry Rusty, not him. Maizie returns with Handsome Sam, and after leading the team to victory in the final seconds, Harry manages to intercept Handsome Sam as he''s about to hand Maizie the unopened letter.'
'romantic comedy','When a dancer''s partner becomes pregnant, a nationwide search is instituted to find a replacement from among college women. A perfect choice is found, but she is not in school, resulting in various hijinks.'
'drama','Judith Traherne (Bette Davis) is a young, carefree, hedonistic Long Island socialite and heiress with a passion for horses, fast cars, and too much smoking and drinking. She initially ignores severe headaches and brief episodes of dizziness and double vision, but when she uncharacteristically takes a spill while riding, and then tumbles down a flight of stairs, her secretary and best friend Ann King (Geraldine Fitzgerald) insists she see the family doctor, who refers her to a specialist. Dr. Frederick Steele (George Brent) is in the midst of closing his New York City office in preparation of a move to Brattleboro, Vermont, where he plans to devote his time to brain cell research and scientific study on their growth. He reluctantly agrees to see Judith, who is cold and openly antagonistic toward him. She shows signs of short-term memory loss, but dismisses her symptoms. Steele convinces her the ailments she is experiencing are serious and potentially life-threatening, and puts his career plans on hold to tend to her. When diagnostic tests confirm his suspicions, Judith agrees to surgery to remove a malignant brain tumor. Steele discovers the tumor cannot be completely removed, and realizes she has less than a year to live. The end will be painless but swift—shortly after experiencing total blindness, Judith will die. In order to allow her a few more months of happiness, Steele opts to lie to Judith and Ann and assures them the surgery was a success. As he is a poor liar, Ann is suspicious and confronts Steele, who admits the truth. Steele tells Ann, "she must never know" she is going to die soon. She agrees to remain silent and continue the lie. Judith and Steele become involved romantically and eventually engaged. While helping his assistant pack the office prior to their departure for Vermont, Judith discovers her case history file containing letters from several doctors, all of them confirming Steele''s prognosis. Assuming Steele was marrying her out of pity, Judith breaks off the engagement and reverts to her former lifestyle. One day, her stablemaster Michael O''Leary (Humphrey Bogart), who for years has loved her from afar, confronts her about her unruly behavior and she confesses she is dying. Their conversation convinces her she should spend her final months happy, dignified, and with the man she loves. She apologizes to Steele, she and Steele marry, and move to Vermont. (Throughout the film Judith and O''Leary engage in arguments about the prospects of a colt, Challenger. O''Leary insists Challenger will never make a racehorse while Judith sees him as a future champion, and just before her death O''Leary admits she was correct.) Three months later, Ann comes to visit. She and Judith are in the garden planting bulbs when Judith comments on how odd it is she still feels the heat of the sun under the rapidly darkening skies. She realizes she actually is losing her vision and approaching the end. Steele is scheduled to present his most recent medical findings – which hold out the long-term prospect of a cure for this type of cancer – in New York, and Judith, making an excuse to remain home, helps him pack and sends him off. Then, after bidding Ann, her housekeeper Martha (Virginia Brissac), and her dogs farewell, she climbs the stairs and enters her bedroom. She kneels briefly at the side of her bed, apparently praying, then lies down on the bed. Martha, who has followed her, drapes a blanket over her. Judith asks to be left alone, and Martha withdraws. The camera focuses on the motionless Judith as the screen becomes blurry, fades to black, and the film ends.'
'drama','Ralph Dickson is an FBI agent assigned to investigate the killing of a colleague. He is chosen to investigate due to an uncanny likeness to the presumed killer. Dickson goes undercover and learns the identity of the gang leader, Carney, who is also known as "the Illustrious One" and the "Daughter of the Tong." Carney stays holed up at the Oriental Hotel while she has her henchmen doing her dirty work.'
'drama','Freewheeling Jim Masters returns home after a 20-year absence, during which he was declared dead, to find that his wife, Nancy, is about to marry Sam Sloane, a stable local man in Carmel, California. She must now choose between her ex-husband and her new fiancé. The Masters daughters are also upset that their irresponsible father has re-entered their lives after so long an absence. Meanwhile, the youngest daughter, Buff, is drawn to tough-guy Gabriel Lopez, a man that reminds Jim Masters of himself.'
'comedy','Pooling their resources, New York City taxi drivers designate Ernie Ambrose to go to Kentucky and buy them a racehorse. Ernie leaves behind his sweetheart Ina and spends all their money on a horse, relying on advice from a fake "colonel" by buying a nag called Hiccup. The horse is useless until Ina discovers via the colonel that Hiccup has a taste for beer. At long odds, she bets $2,000 on the drunken horse to win, which it does, bankrupting bookies all over town.'
'western','Saloon owner Kent (Brian Donlevy), the unscrupulous boss of the fictional Western town of Bottleneck, has the town''s sheriff, Mr. Keogh (Joe King), killed when Keogh asks one too many questions about a rigged poker game. Kent and "Frenchy" (Marlene Dietrich), his girlfriend and the dance hall queen, now have a stranglehold over the local cattle ranchers. The crooked town''s mayor, Hiram J. Slade (Samuel S. Hinds), who is in collusion with Kent, appoints the town drunk, Washington Dimsdale (Charles Winninger), as the new sheriff, assuming that he will be easy to control and manipulate. But what the mayor does not know is that Dimsdale was a deputy under the famous lawman Tom Destry, and is able to call upon the latter''s equally formidable son, Tom Destry, Jr. (James Stewart), to help him make Bottleneck a lawful, respectable town. Destry confounds the townsfolk by refusing to strap on a gun in spite of demonstrating that he is an expert marksman. He still carries out the "letter of the law", as deputy sheriff, and earns their respect. A final confrontation between Destry and Kent''s gang is inevitable, but "Frenchy" is won over by Destry and changes sides. A final gunfight ensues where Frenchy is killed in the crossfire, and the rule of law wins the day.'
'suspense','For treating a wounded revolutionary, respected surgeon, Dr. Charles Gaudet (Boris Karloff) is sentenced to life imprisonment to the infamous French penal colony on Devil''s Island. It isn''t long before he speaks out against the inhuman conditions and incurs the anger of the brutal prison commander, Colonel Armand Lucien (James Stephenson). But when Lucien''s daughter Collette receives life-threatening wounds in an accident, the only person on Devils Island who can save her, is Gaudet.'
'serial','International spy, Zarnoff, in the employ of "The Three Powers" (presumably a fictionalized reference to the Axis) is captured by Dick Tracy at the start of the serial, tried and sentenced to death. However, through the use of a rare drug embedded by his agents in the evening newspaper, he escapes from the gas chamber. His men pick up his "corpse" by ambushing the hearse and administering another counter-drug. He continues his espionage plans, while taking the opportunity of revenge on Tracy.'
'drama','Tyler Craden is disbarred by the legal profession after destroying evidence against his client, gangster Mardeen, following the murder of a cop. While on vacation, Craden ends up in a town where a murder trial is taking place. He is impressed by defense attorney Joan Carroll and gets her a job with a firm run by Roberts, a corrupt pal of his. Bradley Kent, an honest prosecutor, is both rival and suitor to Joan. She rejects marriage proposals from Kent and Craden both, but joins the district attorney''s office to fight crime. Mardeen turns up and tries to blackmail Craden, who shoots him. The DA arrests Craden and Roberts, which frees Joan to continue her work and also to marry Kent.'
'drama','Young medical student John Wesley Beaven is torn between the detached, cold pragmatism of Dr. Forster (Akim Tamiroff) and the humanistic attitudes of kindly Dr. Cunningham (William Collier Sr.). Matters are brought to a head when Beaven must choose between his career and impending marriage to fellow student Audrey Hilton (Dorothy Lamour). Dr. Forster convinces Audrey to return to her native China and let Howard pursue his studies undistracted. She takes Forster''s advice, but Howard follows her. Once in the Orient he is injured in a bomb blast, and in a makeshift hospital, Dr. Forster is called on to perform a risky operation to save his life.'
'western','The action of the film starts with Colonel Dodge (Henry O''Neill) arriving on the first train and subsequently opening the new railroad line that links Dodge City with the rest of the world. A few years later, Dodge City has turned into the "longhorn cattle center of the world and wide-open Babylon of the American frontier, packed with settlers, thieves and gunmen—the town that knew no ethics but cash and killing". In particular, it is Jeff Surrett (Bruce Cabot) and his gang who kill, steal, cheat and, generally, control life in Dodge City without ever being brought to justice. Any new sheriff, sworn into office in Dodge, is quickly driven out of town by Surrett and his cronies. Colonel Dodge''s friend Wade Hatton (Errol Flynn), a lone Irish cowboy who was instrumental in bringing the railroad to Dodge City, is now on his way to the town leading a trek of settlers from the East coast. At Hatton''s side are his old companions Rusty (Alan Hale) and Tex (Guinn ''Big Boy'' Williams), who are prepared to stay with him through thick and thin. Among the settlers are beautiful Abbie Irving (Olivia de Havilland) and her irresponsible brother Lee (William Lundigan), who, drunk, causes a stampede (which eventually kills him) and is shot by Hatton in self-defense. When the group arrive in Dodge City, Hatton is confronted with the full extent of the anarchy which is dictating everyday life there. Asked by anxious citizens—Abbie''s uncle, Dr. Irving (Henry Travers) among them—to be the new sheriff, Hatton politely declines, saying he is not cut out for this kind of job. Hatton changes his mind when, during a school outing, a young boy, Harry Cole is inadvertently killed by Surrett and his men. The new sheriff and his deputies—Rusty and Tex among them of course—have a hard time not just fighting the criminals but also convincing all the farmers who have been wronged by Surrett that mob rule ("Come on, boys, let''s take ''em out to the plaza") is out of the question. Regardless, all in all, Hatton was quite capable of his new job and was off to a good start cleaning up the town. Meanwhile, Hatton, Abbie and the likable newspaperman Joe Clemens (Frank McHugh) uncover enough evidence of Surrett''s shady dealings to stand a chance in court. Before Joe could publish a story, one of Surrett''s thugs, Yancey (Victor Jory) shoots the editor in the back. The only witness who can put Surrett behind bars now is Abbie whom Hatton, out of love for her, arranges to leave town for safety until further notice. When Yancey is in jail for Joe''s killing, Hatton has to protect him against the furious men outside who, not caring for Yancey''s right to a fair trial, want to take the law into their own hands and lynch him right then and there. Intending to ensure that Yancey deserves a fair trial, Hatton and Rusty were able to manage to smuggle him out of town in a hearse to the train station where a train (which Abbie happens to be on) bound for Wichita was just about to leave. However, Surrett and his gang were waiting and sneak on board to try and spring Yancey. A gunfight then ensues and inadvertently causes a fire in the baggage car. Fearing for Hatton''s life, Abbie rushes to the baggage car to warn him of the danger. Using her as a shield, Surrett orders Hatton and Rusty to release Yancey immediately. Afterwards, Surrett locks Hatton, Abbie and Rusty in the burning car. After the three manage to escape from the car, Hatton and Rusty kill Surrett and his gang who were trying to make a getaway. In the end, Hatton succeeds in both overwhelming and catching the baddies and winning Abbie''s heart. Everything has been prepared for a quiet family life in newly civilized Dodge City, but Hatton is asked by Colonel Dodge to clean up Virginia City, Nevada, another railroad town more dangerous than Dodge City had ever been. Understanding how much Hatton is needed to settle the West, a loving Abbie heartily suggests she and her new husband join the next wagon train for their new life together.'
'western','In colonial America, Lana Borst (Claudette Colbert), the eldest daughter of a wealthy Albany, New York family, marries Gilbert Martin (Henry Fonda). Together they leave her family''s luxurious home to embark on a frontier life on Gil''s small farm in Deerfield, in the Mohawk Valley of central New York. The time is July 1776, and the spirit of revolution is in the air. The valley''s mostly ethnic German settlers have formed a local militia in anticipation of an imminent war, and Gil joins up. As Gil and his neighbors are clearing his land for farming, Blue Back (Chief John Big Tree), a friendly Oneida man, arrives to warn them that a raiding party of Seneca, led by a Tory named Caldwell (John Carradine), is in the valley. The settlers leave their farms and take refuge in nearby Fort Schuyler. Lana, who is pregnant, miscarries during the frantic ride to the fort. The Martin farm is destroyed by the Seneca raiding party. With no home and winter approaching, the Martins accept work on the farm of a wealthy widow, Mrs. McKlennar (Edna May Oliver). During a peaceful interlude, Mrs. McKlennar and the Martins prosper. Then, word comes that a large force of British soldiers and Indians is approaching the valley. The militia sets out westward to intercept the attackers; but their approach is badly timed and the party is ambushed. Though the enemy is eventually defeated at Oriskany, more than half of the militiamen are killed. Gil returns home, wounded and delirious, but slowly recovers. Lana is again pregnant and delivers a son in May. That summer Indian and Tory raiding parties burn and pillage farms and small settlements. The harvest is small, and while Mrs. McKlennar''s stone house is not burned, there is barely enough food to survive the winter. Lana bears her second child, another son, the following August. The raids continue but the crops fare much better, so there is plenty to eat that winter, although the cold is severe. After the spring thaw, the British and their Indian allies mount a major attack to take the valley, and the settlers again take refuge in the fort. Mrs. McKlennar is mortally wounded and ammunition runs short. Gil makes a heroic dash through enemy lines to secure help from nearby Fort Dayton. Reinforcements arrive just in time to beat back the attackers, who are about to overwhelm the fort. The militia pursues, harasses, and defeats the British force, scattering its surviving soldiers in the wilderness. The Mohawk Valley is saved. Three years later, with the war over, Gil and Lana return to their farm at Deerfield. They have a third child (a baby girl). They look forward to a happy and peaceful life in the valley as citizens of the new, independent United States of America.'
'comedy short','The Stooges are once again unemployed. After an unsuccessful attempt to steal a watermelon from a deliveryman (Cy Schindell), which lands them in trouble with a cop (William Irving), the boys wind up at the offices of the Canvas Back Duck Club. The club, run by conmen Blackie (Lynton Brent) and Doyle (Wheaton Chambers) needs some salesmen and the trio have no trouble getting the job because, unbeknownst to them, the whole thing is a scam. Dressed in duck-hunting gear, Larry, Moe and Curly invade the police station and barge right into the office of the police chief (Bud Jamison). The Stooges somehow convince him, the mayor, and the entire police department to join up. Once the stooges informed the conmen about the sale and who they sold them to, the conmen took the money and leave knowing that they''ll get caught. By the time the group arrives at the lodge, the "club owners" are long gone, and an old man assures them that there are no ducks to be found. In a panic, Moe and Larry try to solve this dilemma by hurling decoy ducks and rubber decoys over the pond. Curly arrives at last with a large flock of ducks (à la the Pied Piper of Hamelin) and leads them into the water. Eventually, the old man shows up (with the sheriff) ranting that Curly has stolen his prize domestic ducks, worth $5 apiece. The cops realize they have been swindled and point their guns at the Stooges, who flee the scene.'
'drama','Joe Bell (John Garfield) becomes embittered after he is jailed for 16 months for something he did not do. Later, he gets into a fight with a crook (played by an uncredited Ward Bond) and is sentenced to a work farm for 90 days. There, he becomes friends with Mabel Alden (Priscilla Lane), which displeases Charles Garreth (Stanley Ridges), her stepfather and the farm''s foreman. The two men fight, and Joe knocks Garreth out. Panicking, the young couple flee and get married, only to learn that Garreth has died and that Joe is wanted for his murder. Constantly on the move to avoid capture, Joe finally gets a break. He is in the right spot to take pictures of a bank robbery in progress. He uses them to get a job as a photographer at a newspaper run by Mike Leonard (Alan Hale). When the leader of the outfit tries to get the negatives, Joe saves Mike''s life. Unfortunately, his own picture is put on the front page of various newspapers as a result. Joe tries to flee once more, but Mabel turns him in to the police, convinced that running away is the wrong thing to do. At the trial, despite a parade of character witnesses in Joe''s favor, the prosecutor (John Litel) seems to have the upper hand. Defense attorney Slim Jones (Moroni Olsen) calls Mabel to the stand. She convinces the jury to declare her husband innocent.'
'gangster','Frank Ross (Cagney) is a crusading reporter for a big-city newspaper on the trail of a crooked district attorney, Jesse Hanley, who is running for election as governor of the state. At the Banton Construction Co., Ross sees Hanley and his accomplice Grayce (Jory) burning books and ledgers to thwart a possible investigation brought about by the paper that Ross works for. His editor Patterson backs Ross in getting Hanley but the D.A. decides to get rid of him, so frames him. Knocked out and covered in whiskey, he is put in a runaway car which collides with another, killing 3 young people and is thrown in prison for one to twenty years on a charge of automotive manslaughter. He meets a gangster, Stacey (Raft), who, as there is no death penalty in that state, is in for 199 years. They work in the twine-making room together and Stacey falls into Ross''s debt when Ross saves him from a knife thrown by another inmate. Ross''s reporter friends outside are trying to help him win vindication by finding the real culprits but they are having no success. Stacey agrees to help Ross prove that he was framed if Ross helps him escape from a courthouse. They arrange that Stacey be named by Ross as guilty for killing of Limpy, another inmate and hated stool pigeon. Ross goes along with the plot, including a promise to tell no one about it, but antagonizes Stacey by tipping off his old newspaper, so that the court room is full of reporters. He escapes by leaping from a window but makes no effort to find the real culprits who were responsible for Ross''s predicament. Ross, meanwhile, is implicated in the escape and after being beaten up by brutal guards, spends five months in "the hole" refusing to betray Stacey. This is solitary confinement where prisoners are handcuffed to the bars in the dark and fed bread and water once a day. Ross, who has become a bad character, is promised a chance at parole by the warden (Bancroft) if he reforms, but Hanley has become governor and appointed Grayce to head the parole board. Grayce turns Ross down, meaning he must wait another five years before he can try again for parole. Stacey is shamed by Ross''s reporter girlfriend, Joyce (Jane Bryan), to carry out his promise. He finds the man who "fingered" Ross and gets from him the name of the man who framed him: "Polecat", who just happens to be a jailhouse informant widely disliked in the same prison. Stacey, impressed with Ross being a "square guy," decides to go back to prison to force Polecat to confess. Stacey instigates a prison breakout as part of his plan and orders the prisoners to bring along Polecat. A vicious prison guard is killed and the warden and some of his men held as hostages, but the National Guard have been sent for and block the escape with machine guns, gas and hand grenades. Freed from the hole as part of the escape, Stacey forces Polecat to confess to framing Ross with the warden and his men as witnesses to vindicate Ross. All of the escaping convicts are killed, including the badly wounded Stacey, who forces Polecat to go with him and be killed so that he cannot recant his confession. Governor Hanley and Grayce are indicted for murder and Ross is freed.'
'drama','Jaded playboy Richard Fleming travels to the South American nation of Rosarita. Through his motorcycle riding guide Roberto he discovers true love and a career as a Yerba mate exporter.'
'spy drama','The film opens with a description of the Black Tom explosion of a munitions supply located in Jersey City on the Hudson River. The explosion, which occurred during World War I was an act of sabotage by German agents. Barry Corvall (Joel McCrea), the son of a recently deceased American diplomat, has just gotten married. When he discovers that his new wife (Brenda Marshall) is a possible enemy agent, he resigns from the diplomatic service to go undercover to expose an espionage ring planning to destroy American industrial capability before war breaks out. Traveling on a train in Germany, Corvall attempts to swipe a briefcase with documents in an attempt to prove that the Nazis, have been infiltrating vital industrial centers in the United States. With the help of his wife, he tries to foil the plans of the Nazi spy (Martin Kosleck).'
'comedy','Anita Halstead (Loretta Young) goes to see a magic act performed by Tony (David Niven), the "Great Arturo", after her bridal shower for her wedding to Don Burns (Broderick Crawford). Anita and Tony are immediately attracted to each other and get married. She becomes his assistant in the act. One night, Tony becomes drunk in the company of a woman reporter and boasts he will jump out of an airplane at 15,000 feet (4,600 m) with his hands handcuffed behind his back. When she prints his claim, he first tries to get out of it with a fake cast on his arm, but when he sees the thousands of fans, he goes through with it, freeing himself in mid-air and parachuting safely to the ground. He promises Anita that he will not attempt the dangerous stunt again, but soon breaks his word and performs it repeatedly all over the world. Anita becomes weary of the constant travel and longs to settle down and start a family. Secretly, she sells her jewelry and has a house built in the Connecticut countryside. When it is completed, she shows Tony a picture of it, but his uninterested reaction stops her from telling him it is theirs. When he signs up for a two-year, round-the-world tour rather than take the vacation he had promised, she finally gives up. She leaves him and gets a divorce in Reno. Anita''s grandfather, Bishop Peabody (C. Aubrey Smith), breaks the news to the distraught Tony. On a sea cruise with her Aunt Abby (Billie Burke), Anita is surprised to run into her old fiance Don. She gets the ship''s captain to marry them. However, she spends their honeymoon night with her grandfather. The next night, Don insists on introducing her to his boss, Harley Bingham (Raymond Walburn), at a nightclub. The entertainment is none other than the Great Arturo, with his old assistant, Lola De Vere (Virginia Field). He soon persuades Bingham to let him perform at Bingham''s company retreat at a resort, much to Anita''s discomfort. Mrs. Bingham (ZaSu Pitts) has a dilemma, though. They have not booked enough rooms to provide separate bedrooms for the unmarried Tony and Lola. Tony suggests he and Don share one room, while Anita and Lola take the other. During his stay, Tony tries unsuccessfully to persuade Anita to take him back. Meanwhile, the hapless Don becomes sick, and the doctor prescribes no physical activity of any sort for a month. Bishop Peabody is told by his lawyer that Anita''s divorce is not legal. Later, he informs his granddaughter that Tony will be doing his parachute stunt that day. She attends. Tony tells his valet and friend Benton (Hugh Herbert) that he hid a lockpick in the wrong airplane, but goes ahead with the trick anyway. He frees himself dangerously close to the ground. After he is pulled unconscious out of the water, Anita rushes to his side. When he regains consciousness, they are reconciled. In the final scene, they enter their Connecticut home.'
'comedy','Ray Milland and Robert Cummings play competing newspaper reporters, in Switzerland, on the trail of the Nobel Prize winner Dr Norden. Norden was supposed to have been killed in Germany. Each reporter meets, and falls in love with, a young woman, played by Sonja Henie, who turns out to be Norden''s daughter living under an assumed name. Their discovery of her father brings the Gestapo.'
